Da genie-ologee of Happy Cat 

O Hai! Dis book of genie-ologee of Happy Cat, son 
of Daybid King Cat, son of Apra-Ham:Apra-Ham maded 
Eye-Sack, Eye-Sack maded Jay-Kub, Jay-Kub maded 
J-Duh and hiz bros.J-Duh maded Press and Zerwit 
Tuh-Mar. Press maded Hezrum, and Hezrum maded 
Ramb.Ramb maded Aming-Dap, Aming-Dap maded Noshin' 
and Noshin' ated delishus Salmon (jk, he maded him 
).Delishus Salmon maded Bow Azz, Bow Azz maded 
Obet by umpsing Rüf, Obet maded Jes-Seean Jes-See 
maded Daybid King Cat. David King Cat maded Wizdum 
Cat Sorrowman by Hankiez Pankiez wit sum chick 
that used to has Hankiez Pankiez wit tomcat 
Mew-Ryah. Lol, tomcat Mew-Ryah got pwned.Wizdum 
Cat Sorrowman maded Rayabome, Rayabome maded V'ger 
and V'ger maded Aysa.Aysa maded Ahosacat, and he 
maded Jor-El and Jor-El maded Fuzziah.Fuzziah 
maded Jo-Dam, Jo-Dam maded Ihaz and Ihaz maded 
Haz-a-Kyder.Haz-a-Kyder maded Man-Asser, Man-Asser 
maded Aming and Aming maded Joes-Eyer.Joes-Eyer 
maded Jeckiner and hiz bros, was bout when they 
was catchered to Babaron.And after they was in 
Babaron, Jeckiner maded Shellatiel, and Shellatiel 
maded Zero-Bapler.Zero-Bapler maded Apiut, Apiut 
maded Lyon King and Lyon King maded Asser lol.Aser 
maded Zardoz, Zardoz maded Aking and Aking maded 
Elly-Ut.Elly-Ut maded A-Lazer, A-Lazer maded 
Matting and Matting maded anuvver uv Jay-Kub.And 
Jay-Kub maded Joseph. Dat wuz alot uv kitlins. 
Joseph was teh tomcat of Mary, and she maded Happy 
Cat, who gets called Christ (Nointed Cat), liek 
all teh time. Srsly.So all teh genenerayshuns from 
Apra-Ham to Daybid King Cat am genenerayshuns, frm 
Daybid King Cat to gettin catchered in Babaron am 
genenerayshuns, and frm gettin catchered up in 
Babaron to teh Nointed Cat am genenerayshuns. 
Srsly. How is Happy Cat Formed? 

Now, teh burth of teh Nointed Cat was liek dis: 
After Mary and Joseph wuz all "We get maerdied, 
kthnx", but befor dey haz hankiez pankiez Mary was 
a muthur cat thanx HovurCat.Joseph was liek "I haz 
virjn - NOOOO dey be stealin my virjn! Must hied 
hur".But when he was tihnkin, zomg, a BirdCat frm 
Ceiling Cat was liek, "Oh hai! Iz in ur dreemz, 
givin u messij. Don be scairdy cat. Taek Mary as 
ur wife - is virjn. But teh Forse is strong in 
tihs wun, lol! HovrCat is on hur, givn hur kitlin, 
srsly." So Joseph was liek " Oh yey. Iz gonna luv 
him and squeez him and call him George."But 
BirdCat was liek "No, you gonna call him Happy 
Cat. cuz he save kittehs frum bein bad kittehs. 
Kthxbai."So all dis was all did cuz Ceiling Cat 
had sed it wud be. Him proffit was all liek:"Hay 
guise, luk! teh virjn is all preggers, and dey 
gonna call him A-manual", dat be joospeek for 
"Ceiling Cat wiv us"Then Joseph walked up, dun wat 
teh BirdCat frm Ceiling Cat tolded him too, and 
was all liek "U wit me now lol" at Mary.And dey 
didnt has Hankiez Pankiez affer dey gets a son and 
call him Happy Cat. Kthnx. 

Nao, when Happy Cat was borned in teh dayz when 
Herrot teh king wuz rockin the casbah, hai look, 
dere sum waiz doodz comin frm teh Eats into 
Jeruslimn dey wuz all leik “Rawr! we iz waiz dds 
from teh Eats! Lol but srsly wear iz teh new lt 
king jdat got borned? In teh eats we wuz in nait 
timez and omg der wuz dis star in a invisibel 
plaen n it saied to us ‘go to Jeruslim n find lt 
king jdat got borned, but do not eated him jus be 
liek hey leet king jyu pwn srsly. k?’ so ya wer 
is he?” 

king herrot (teh nb king) was campin liek a ubr nb 
near der, n wen he heared dis he wuz liek “omfg 
hez in mah empaire, steelin ma gloriez (an mai 
cookiez wtf)?!??! n all d pplz in Jeruslim wuz 
leik “hey yea wtf?!”So he got all d pplz who 
are has teh smartz, ne he sayed “sry im nb but 
lol srsly wer doez king jspawn?”N dey sed to him 
“lol.. dd, obviusly king jspawns in beetleham, 
Ceiling Cat sayed to sum gai wun time “O rite 
dis down n stuff” n he rited:“dw beetleham, u 
r not teh fail, cuz from u iz gunna come dis lt dd 
who cn pwn evryn is haz cookiez. Hez gunna saev 
teh ppl of Israel n whatnot.” 

Den king herrot was liek "kk", n he aksed teh waiz 
dds “u know wen it wuz nait timez n dat star 
sayed stuff yuz, wen waz dat happen?” n teh waiz 
dds wuz like “lol wut?”So king herrot sed 
“omg dw, juz go too beetleham n look for teh new 
king jn wen u find him IM me coz I wanna sai to 
him how much he pwnz. (har har har I are 
smartz…)”After dat dey wuz on der way n teh 
star in a invisibel plaen waz fast. Srsly. n it 
wuz liek “haiu! good job dds! btw teh king jis 
ova here my plaen is pointing wer he iz, k?”Teh 
wiez dds wuz leik “kthx we cn see wer he iz 
now!” n wuz happi n stuff.Dey goed dere n seed 
baby Happy Cat n maerdy who wuz are who bornded 
him. n dey were liek “dd u r teh new king u pwn 
srsly! lol u are so lt! omfg < ltrly! Btw we 
bringd u sum cheezburgrs n munniez n funerul stuff 
(srsly), u can has dem if u want.”Aftr dat dey 
waz about to IM king herrot den wun of dem sayd 
“o, actuly, I hasd a dream at nait timez n 
ceiling cat wuz like “hey sup dd.” n I wuz 
liek “nm, u?” n he wuz liek “nm but dd get 
dis, king herrot r liez tbh. He iz lookin for 
Happy Cat so he cn pwn him wtf!!!?” Den I woke 
up bt srsly Ceiling Cat sed dat.” So teh udder 
waiz dds sayed “o wtf, I haet dat nb king herod 
wtf is hiz problem” n dey all goed bak to der 
hoem in d eats bi differnt way. 

And wen dey were gone teh hover ddz of teh Ceiling 
Cat appeareded to Jozif and sayed "Hai, get up 
nao, and taek kitlin and mudder into Eejipptrz, 
and stay dere till I sez, cos Herrot is lukin for 
teh kitlin and him gonna pwn him!"And him got up 
and taeked Happy Cat and him mundder into 
Eejipptrz at nait:and stayed dere til Herrot was 
"lol *dead*", so ting wud be liek teh profet sayed 
wen he sayed "Out of Eejipptrz I done called mah 
son"Bhe dyd, Herrot, wen he saw teh wies men was 
lollin at him, was rlly ticked, so him goed owt 
and pwned all teh kitlins dat woz in Beetleham, 
and teh beaches round dere, dat was under , cuz 
teh kitlin he waanted to pwn was dat age.Dat was 
teh way teh profet Jer-Mewer sayed 

In Romma dere was a mew herd, crine vaerdy sadly, 
Raychul crine for her kitlins, and wud not be 
comfortd, cuz dey iz gon. 

But wen Herrot wuz "lol *dead*", and hover dd frm 
Ceiling Cat came to Joezif in a dreensayin "Hai, 
jcan go hoem nao, Herrot am dead, lol"And him went 
home to Izreal wit teh kitlin and him mudder.But 
wen him herd dat Archie'lolz was nb king nao afer 
him dad Herrot, him was scaerdy to go dere; also, 
Ceiling Cat sed, "hai, joo dreemin, but nb king 
still wantz pwn joo." So him went Gallalee 
insted:and him moved into Nazref, so teh profets 
wud be rite wen dey sed "Ppl gonna call him a 
Nazreem" 

In dem dayz caem John Teh Baftis, preachin in teh 
wilderness of Jdea,And sayin "ZOMG, Kingdom Of Cat 
Heving am at hand! Be vaerdy sardy!For dis is him 
dat teh profet Zai-ass was speekin of, sayin" teh 
voice of teh one cryin in teh wilterness, Prepare 
teh way of teh Lord guise, make his pats strayt." 

And teh saem John was wearin camul hair and 
leather pantz; and he eated bugs and hunnys.Den he 
went out to Jeroozlem and Jdea and all round 
JortanAnd he gived water bafs to ppls in teh 
Jortan, and dey told ther Invizable Errors to him 
an Ceiling Cat 

But wen he saw teh Fairy-sees and Saddu-sees com 
to his baf, he sayed "Jsnaky nbs, who warned jto 
flea teh wrath that am comin?If ur all rly sorry, 
do teh gud stuff Ceiling Cat told u do!And dont 
tink dat jhas Abraham as jr dad, cuz Ceiling Cat 
cud maek dese stones into kitlins of AbrahamAnd 
now teh axe pwns teh rute of teh tree, and all teh 
trees dat dont make leet fruitz get pwnd and 
burninated, LOL" 

"For srsly, I give water bafs to ppls wit waters, 
but teh next gai dat comin, and he so I cant even 
has his shoos: he gonna give bafs to ppls wiv far 
and Hovercat!He get all teh weets and put in weets 
house, and he gonna burninate teh straws thats 
left ovar with teh leet fire of pwnage! 

Den Happy Cat caem from Garary, to has water baf 
from JohnBut John was all "Ur doin it rong, jneedz 
to water baf me" 

And Happy Cat sayed "STFU and gib to me water baf 
nb" and John did. 

Wen he was gived water baf he gtfo of teh water 
and, ZOMG, teh ceilinz opened up and Hover Cat 
caem down liek a duv and landeded on himAnd, 
ZOMFGWTF, a voice from heven sayed "Hai guise, dis 
my son, and I tink he teh ." 

So Happy Cat taiked hisself teh desert to hang 
with teh Basement Cat, so Basement Cat cud tri to 
pwn himN he et no cheezburgrz or cookies, even, fr 
dayz n nites, srsly!Den Basement Cat wuz der and 
sayd “O hai, if ur teh Ceiling Cat’s kitlin, 
makes cheezburgrz outta da rocks kthx.” 

Happy Cat sayd “NFW! Cheezburgrz am not da best, 
Ceiling Cat’s mews am best,” even tho he rly 
laikd cheezburgrz, laik, srsly. 

Basement Cat wuz nt pwned, an tuk Happy Cat to top 
of Fridgerader.An sayd, “if ur teh Ceiling 
Cat’s kitlin, jump off and birdcats will cach u, 
n make u all cumfy n stuff, kthx.” 

Happy Cat sayd "not is cool try pwn Ceiling Cat". 

Basement Cat tuk Happy Cat in ur mounting, sittin 
on ur top, n showed Happy Cat ebry of roon in ebry 
of howse, srsly.N sayd, “All da base r belong u 
if u lets me pwn u, kthx.” 

But Happy Cat sayd, “STFU Basement Cat, R U DUM? 
Ceiling Cat am mai BFF cuz he am teh !” 

Den Basement Cat wuz pwnd, n birdcats cam frm 
Ceiling Cat an gave Happy Cat all teh cheezburgrz 
an cookiez an brushded his hairs. 

Wen Happy Cat founded out dat John Baftis wuz in 
cat jail he made tracks fr GalalyAn staid in 
Caper-Num by the waters bt he dint tak his bukkit 
an spayd.Cuz teh wize Ass-Eyess sayd“In all teh 
base, laik Zabalon n Nefarim n teh c n Jortan (yeh 
even KT Prys) n Galaly.Happy Cat will turn on teh 
liteswitch fr teh kittenz dat iz sittin in teh 
dark." 

Dat iz wen Happy Cat strted tell teh kittenz, 
“say yur sory fer bean bad kittehs cuz teh Cat 
Heaven am at hand btw. srsly.” 

Den Happy Cat bumpded into kitlins uv same mudder 
hoo wuz cathcin fish n wuz called Siming AKA 
Peeter n Antroo AKA L'il KitlinN Happy Cat sayd, 
“Comes wit me n u can catch pplz.”N cuz Happy 
Cat am teh , dey wuz laik, “kthx.” 

N den Happy Cat met Janes n udder John, hoo wuz 
vaedy reraxin on a bote wit dair tomcats, hoo wuz 
Zebedee frm teh Magic Roundabout.N dey also went 
wit Happy Cat. 

Happy Cat tuk hs crew roun Galaly, teechin in teh 
Ceiling Cat prace n sayn teh Good Mews n heelin 
teh sit.N many cats herd all bout his ness an brot 
all der sit cats , laik teh crzy s n teh s dat 
Basement Cat had fiddlded wit, n Happy Cat heeled 
dem .An laik meellions an meellions of ddz 
followed Happy Cat frm all ovr teh wrld. 

Wen he seez lotz kittehz, he climbz tree. His BFz 
climbz tree too. 

He sez hai and he teaches teh kittehs, he sez: 

Cheezburgrz teh nb kittehs, theys can has teh 
Ceiling. 

Cheezburgrz teh sad kittehs, theys can has 
petting. 

Cheezburgrz teh mk kittehs, theys can has teh 
urfs. 

Cheezburgrz teh kittehs who sez "I can has gud, 
plz?", theys can has it. 

Cheezburgrz teh kittehs dat no pwns, Ceiling Cat 
no pwnzrz thems. 

Cheezburgrz teh kittehs wiff purr in hartz, theys 
can sees Ceiling Cat. 

Cheezburgrz teh kittehs dat sez shhhhh!, Ceiling 
Cat is liek "u mai kittehs." 

Cheezburgrz teh kittehs dat gets pwned by otehrs 
fur haz gud, theys can has teh Ceiling too. 

Cheezburgrz if otehrs be liek "DO NOT WANT" u, an 
liez abt u, coz of meh. 

B teh happys n party, coz u can has cookiez n 
cakez in Ceiling. Iz liek wen theys been liek "DO 
NOT WANT" to all teh holee kittehs b. 

u r teh cheezburgerz. if cheezburgerz haz no 
cheez, taste bad. trashcat can has it. 

u r teh meme of teh internet. lolcat pic online iz 
not invizible. 

emos dont frendslock lj posts. tehy post public 
all teh internetz. 

u post lolcat pic online so internetz is liek 
"OMG! ur so kl! Ceiling Cat rockz!" 

dont break law. im in ur urfs fulfillin ur 
propheciez 

iz all true. srsly. law iz not deleted 

if u break law, no can has cheezburger. if u teach 
law, can has lotz cookiez 

u b good kittehz or Ceiling Cat is liek "bad 
kittehz! u can not has mi pad!" 

u kno if u pwnzrz, Ceiling Cat is liek "wtf? bad 
kittehz!" 

but if u is liek "u nb!", uz betr off in trashcan, 
srsly. 

if u has gift Ceiling Cat n u has pwned ur brother 

ur brother can has hugs bu give gift Ceiling Cat 

lawyers screw u. settle out of court. srsly 

or they take all ur $$. iz all true. srsly. 

Ceiling Cat iz liek "no buttsecks!!!bad kittehz!" 

but im liek "wtf? im in ur brain, watching u think 
about it" 

if ur eye makez u bad kitteh, scratch it out with 
ur claws, or uz betr off in trashcan, srsly. 

if ur paw makez u bad kitteh, bite it off, or uz 
betr off in trashcan, srsly. 

Ceiling Cat iz liek "pay divorce lawyer" 

but im like "divorcee iz slut. uz betr off in 
trashcan, srsly." 

Ceiling Cat iz liek "dont break oath or i break 
u!!!" 

but im like "omgwtf? dont swear by Ceiling Catz 
pad 

"or by Ceiling Catz paws on floor 

"or by ur fir 

"ya rly:=ya rly; no wai:=no wai. else evil 
kitteh." 

Ceiling Cat iz liek "i i, fnag fang" 

but im liek if bad kittehz spank u, turn otehr 
cheek 

if bad kittehz take ur fir, give ur tail if dogs 
chase u mile, run 

if u makes a cookie some, doe not eated it 

kittehz iz liek "wuv ur BFFz, hate bad kittehz" 

but im liek "wuv bad kittehz " 

u r all Ceiling Catz kittenz. Sun shines on good 
kittehz and bad. Also rain :-( 

if u wuv only ur BFFs, u no can has cheezburger. 
even teh IRS ddz do taht! 

if u iz liek "oh hai" only ur BFFs, wtf? only nbz 
do taht. 

b kl liek teh Ceiling Cat 

Dunt eatz ur cheezburgerz budder kittez, cuz if u 
do you get no cheezburgerz from teh Ceiling 
Cat.When you give cheezburgerz nb kittez, dunt 
brag bout it kthx.when u give nb kittez, don't 
tell your left paw, k?If ur left paw dunt kno, you 
get teh cheezburgerz from Ceiling Cat. 

so u be all leik MCHammertime and pray jus make it 
day and stuff.Ceiling Cat is watching you 
prostrate but u donut no he is tho.ur pray shood 
not be made of fail.Ceiling Cat knows what u donut 
hate. 

u pray leik dis: Ceiling Cat, who r watchin us, u 
can has cheezburger.Wut yu want, yu gets, 
srsly.Let us dis day has our dalee cheezburger.And 
furgiv us for makin u a cookie, but eateding it, 
same as we furgiv teh kittehz taht maked us 
cookiez, but eated tehm.An leed us not into teh 
showa, but deliver us from teh wawter. Cuz all our 
base n teh pwnage n teh +s r belong U eva&evah, 
srlsy kthxbai. 

if u sais sry Ceiling Cat will be leik s'ok iz 
kewl.if u donut sez sry Ceiling Cat will pwn u. 

if you want cheezburger plz to not be cryin. U can 
has invisible cheezeburger.if you want 
cheezeburger but can't has, get ur hair 
did.Ceiling Cat is watching you abstinate evn tho 
teh uthrs r lik "hay he luks good." Srsly. 

donut hoard all ur monies. They be stealin ur 
monies!Hide da monies in da Ceiling. Ceiling Cat 
is watching you depos-ate.Ur moneies be safe wif 
Ceiling Cat.Teh i iz teh lamp of teh bodi. If is r 
gud, den hole bodi iz ful of celingness.But if is 
r bad den hole bodi iz ful of trashcanness.No can 
serv mastrz. Jcant serv both Celing Cat and moniz. 

so i sez, stop havin teh kittehz bout ur lifes, 
wat cheezburgerz or drinx u is havin, or about ur 
bodeez n wat u iz wearin. Iz life not moar 
importint den teh foodz, and teh bodeez moar 
importint den teh cloathz?Lookit teh birdz in teh 
ceilingz, dey dont be in teh fieldz gatherin teh 
fdz or puttin dem away in teh barnz, but teh 
Ceiling Cat givez dem fdz anywayz lolz. Wat, u 
aint more better den dem?Who can make teh life 
longur by havin teh kittehz newayz? 

And y u be havin teh kittehz about teh raimentz? 
Lookit teh lileez in teh fieldz. Dey dont work or 
nuffingzbut Solomn cant pwn them even with his 
pimp outfitz. No rly.If teh Ceiling Cat makes teh 
grass all pritty, and it gets thrwn into teh venz 
morrw, wat about u, peeplz who no beleiv dat 
much?So plz to be stoppin havin teh kittehz n 
sayin "oh noez, i can has cheezburger?" or "wat be 
wearin dae?"Bcuz onlee teh nbz be havin kittehz 
about thees thingz, k? Ceiling Cat noez wat u 
need. srsly.Look around first for teh kingdm and 
teh rxorz of teh Ceiling Cat, an u can has all 
thees thingz.So stop havin teh kittehz bout teh 
futr bcuz it have enuff kittehz alreddy. dae pwns 
u enuff. kthxbai. 

"If u juj u wil be jujded. So don't.Bcz u will be 
jujded teh saem az u jujded teh othr dd. 

Teh sawdust iz in ur brothrz i, makin u confused. 
Why u caer so much when u gotz a board in ur i 
LOL?Why u sez "O hai takin teh sawdust out of ur 
i"? U gotz board in ur i!Taek teh board out of ur 
i furst dumass. Den taek teh dust out of ur 
brotherz i aftr dat. Duh. 

Dont giff holi thingz to dogz. Dont give pearlz to 
pigz. Dey just taer dem up n then taer u up too. 

U skrachez teh sofaz n u can haz cookie. Sniffz n 
u can find cheezberger. Skrach n teh door will 
opin. Or maybi Ceiling Cat putz in cat 
flap.Evribodi who skrachz getz. Evribodi who 
sniffz findz, Evribodi who skrahcz door getz to go 
in. 

If ur kitteh asks u for cat fued, duz u giffs him 
a rock LOL?Or he wantzes a fish n u giffs him a 
snaek? LOLOLSee, u iz evil, but u giffs ur kittehz 
good gifts. Well Ceiling Cat iz evin bettr dan u n 
giffs bettr gifts!So alwaiz treet othrz liek u 
want dem to treet u. Is teh law n profetz, dumie. 
Kthnxbai. 

Come in thru teh litl door. Teh door to destrucshn 
is big. Lotz of peeplz goes thru.But teh door to 
lief is small. Moast peeplz dont find it. 

Look out for peeplz who tellz teh fyoochur but duz 
it rong. Dey wair tech clothez of sheepz but dey 
is wolvz insied. Bad wolvz.U know what dey iz by 
dey frootz. I bet u didn know wolvz had 
frootz.Good treez haz good frootz. Bad treez haz 
bad frootz.Evri tree wif bad frootz will be cutted 
down an throwed in teh fier.Liek I sez, look at 
teh frootz.Sum peeplz who sez "O hai Lord" to me 
will not go to heavn. Just teh peeplz who duz what 
Ceiling Cat wantz get to go. 

When teh tiem comez lotz of peeplz will be all "O 
hai, we tellded teh fyoochr n chaseded awai demnz 
n gived cheezburgr in ur name."I will sai 'I never 
knew u LOL. Go awai!' 

If u heer me n do whut I tellz u, u iz liek teh 
smart dd who builded his house on teh rock.It 
rainded n flooded n it wuz windi. But teh house 
did not fall down bcz of teh rock.But if u heer me 
n duzn do whut I tellz u, u iz liek teh nb who 
builded his house on teh sand.It rainded n flooded 
in it wuz windi. N his house falled down LOL." 

Evribodi wuz impressed wif Happy Cat for sayin all 
dis.everyone was all amazded and bowed tehre 
hedsBcz he wuz cooler than teh law teechrs. 

Wen he comz down from teh mountins, alll deez ppl 
caem too. An den, lepr wuz liek "O hai scuz me 
Jebus, i has all dees icky sorz, u can fix 
PLZ?!"!!!! Jebus waz liek "Ookai kitteh i will fix 
u" n jus liek dat he wuz all betteh. But Jebus 
also wispurd one mor ting "eksep SH jus keep it 
sekrit k, go to teh cheefs n show dem" 

When Jebus went Capernom, he wuz alred gettin 
buggd lol dis guy caem up an wus liek "Jebus mah 
kitteh is dyinz an hurtin rly bad!!!" Jebus sez 
"Is okai I can fix" He sez "Jebus u iz tu kool for 
mah hous, mebbe jus heel frum here or sumtin?" 
"Cuz I pwn mah own kittehs too, I ses "go over der 
kitteh" n dey go, or I say "heyoo COMEZ," n dey 
comez. I sez to kittehs "get me cookeh" den dey 
gets meh sum cookehs" Jebus was liek "LOLomg. Yoo 
haz mor faif thn all mah own kittehs!!" "Srsly, 
pplz will com frum all over dah plaes nom delishus 
cheezburgers wit mah koolest kittehs in dah 
ceiling" "anden dah stinkeh kittehs will b dropped 
in dah water n getz all wet, an dey will cryy an 
sai "HALP" an never has any cookehs" Den Jebus sez 
him "Go, your kitteh iz betteh becuz uf ur faif 
kthxbai." And poof right den he wuz betteh, just 
liek dat." 

Happy Cat wentz to Peterz haus, n iz mudda in law 
was dyingz! So he jus tuched her n she wuz betteh, 
so she got up n madez him sum cookehs n lukd after 
him. At nite time all deez ppl brot der frends who 
hadz demonz to Happy Cat, n Happy Cat hissd at teh 
demonz and dey rund away and he maed all teh 
kittehs betteh. Dis wuz jus liek Isaiah sed 
before: "He tuk our sikness an carried all our 
fleezez." 

Happy Cat seed a hewj krowd comin n sed, "OMG! We 
gotta go to ova sid uf lake kwik, k?" Den dis one 
writer kitteh was liek: "O hai, teechur cat! I can 
followz u forevah!?" An Happy Cat sez to him: 
"Doggehs haz sofas, burdiez haz nests, but i has a 
Invisible bed." Dis othr gai was liek: "Okai tcher 
I can followz you! O but brb I can clean meh 
litter box first, k?" But Happy Cat sez: "NoOo 
kitteh com nao, u let ur pp cleanz itself." 

One tiem, Happy Cat went in a boat wit his 
dissypels. Den all da sudden, WHOA!! dis BIG HEWJ 
StRM caemd and start pwning teh bat!!! but Happy 
Cat wuz jus sleepin tru dah hol ting!! so him 
dissypels starts shakin him and wer all like, "Dd 
HAPPY CAT WAEK UP!! teh ship be sinkin! We all 
goin get wet, DO NOT WANT!!!" So Happy Cat sai, 
"Omg. Yoo get me up for sum stpid wind?! Wut, u 
tink i will jus let u get all wet an sink? Yoo are 
nbs with no fayf! SRSLY." So Happy Cat gotz up an 
told the strm to shut up so he could get sum moer 
sleepz. Teh dissypels wer all liek, "WHOOA OMG 
GAIS didz u see dat?!? Dis gai ttly pwns da wind 
an efrytin!" 

Happy Cat finaly reachded land He walked down deh 
rohd to Gadara, and two gais wif demuns in them 
jumped in front of him. And dey wer all big n 
tuff. Den dey shoutz, "HEYOO, Alm!ghty Jebus, wat 
choo want wit us newayz?! You gunna pwn us 
alredy??" And der wer all deez piggehs eatin over 
der. So teh demonz sai, "O noes.. If yu gunna pwn 
us, plz jus put us in teh piggehs?" Happy Cat sez 
to dem "Okai fine. go in teh piggehs," an teh 
demons went in teh piggys. Teh piggehs ten became 
ttly emo an dey all jumped in teh lake an drownz. 
Deez gais hu wer watching were like "OMG!!" an dey 
went an teld all der frends bout hao Happy Cat 
pwnd teh demonz. An all deh ppl wer totly freekin 
out an ran out and sed to Happy Cat "Okai, heyoo 
guy who pwnd teh piggehs, DO NOT WANT. Yoo has to 
leav nao, srsly." 

So den Jebus an teh dissyple kittehs got bak in 
dere boat and crossd teh beeg waterz to da plaec 
Jebus use to has livded.When JEbus gots outta da 
boat, some pples brought dis dd who cudnt walk and 
stufz. Jebus was liek "Woa!! deze peeppls got sum 
fayths, srsly" an he ses to teh dd "no wurries, Iz 
furgivn ur sinz."Den sum snootsey smrt kittehs wuz 
liek, "Oh noes he jus blastfemd!!!! lolz!" 

Jebus pwnd dere mynds, and knews ezakly wat dey 
wuz tinkin. He sed, "WTF, I totaly heers u 
wisperin, u stoopid ppls.Wat u tink iz eezier, if 
I sayz 'I furgivs u' or 'get ups, u can be 
walkin!!!'?Well I sho u, meen ppls, dat I can do 
bofs of dose." So he wuz liek, "dd, get ups, taek 
ur stufz and go bak to ur houz lol!"So he did.An 
everywuz all, "Woaa!!!" an happie dat Ceiling Cat 
givd Jebus powr to pwn teh sickiness in pples. 

So den Jebus, he kep on walkin. Den he seez 
Matthew workin on sum taxes. Jebus was liek, "O 
hai, comes wit me lolz!" an Matthew did. 

Laters, Jebus wuz eetin a cheezburger at Matthews 
houz wit sum frindz, and den sum shadee ppls all 
liek cames in n wuz eetin too.But teh farisees got 
crazee mad and yelld sum and sed "WTF?! dese ppls 
is grose Y U EET WIT DEMS!" 

Jebus was liek, "Shut up guyz, srsly. Who needin 
doctrs? Sick ppl, not helthy pples! DUHH u 
nbs!Member teh scripshur dat sed, 'Iz all bout sum 
luvn, not religuns lol!' Iz on Urths to help ppls, 
not hangin out wit farisees dat tink dere so kool 
and stufs." 

So wun dayz John da Baptist, he wuz liek "Jebus, I 
has a fast, mai frindz has a fast, even dose 
farisees has a fast! Y dont ur disyples has fasts 
liek us?" 

But Jebus wuz liek, "Do kittehs act sad on 
Caturday?! Noes! But wun day, Caturday be gone, 
den dey fast :( .Wud u put sum grose old stuf on 
ur new cooky? Noes!Wud u put sum fresh milks in a 
leeky bukkit?! NOES!" 

Wile Jebus wuz tawkin, dd frum a tempul sed "Mah 
dawter, she dide! But Iz not skeered. I knows u 
can maek her alyve agen if u puts ur paw on her 
lolz! 

So Jebus was liek, sure dd, and dey wuz walkin 
over derewhen sum ladie who had a bleedin in hur 
tummeh snuk up and toched Jebus's furs.She was all 
liek, "if I can jus toch him, I be ok lolz!" 

Jebus be liek, "wtf wuz dat?!" an den he saw de 
ladie. He sed, "Oh hai, be happie! U has sum gud 
fayths, now uz all bettur!!!!" An she wuz. 

Den Jebus got to dat dd's houz frum bfore, an dere 
wuz a bunch of ppls and sum sad musics."Shoo, 
ppls!" he sed. "Dis gurl dont be ded; jus takin a 
napz lolz!" But dose ppls laffed at him.But when 
does ppls lef, Jebus he hold dat gurl's hand, and 
she be standin up liek woa!!!Evrywun heard bouts 
dis miracul, and dey were all liek, wtf. Srsly. 

Jebus lef dat houz. Wile he wuz walkin, blind menz 
follows him, sayin "We can has mercie, Jebus?! 
Kthx."Dey followd Jebus all de wayz hoem. Den 
Jebus askd dem, "U srsly bleeve Iz can heel u?" An 
dey wuz liek, "SRSLY!" 

So he tuchd dere eybals n he sed "Cuz u bleeve so 
hard, I heels u." Den dose menz cud see like 
woa!!!But Jebus sed, "Dont be tawkin bouts 
dis."But teh menz told evryaneewayz. Stoopid menz. 

Den sum guy hads a demunz. He cudnt evn tawk cuz 
of dat demun.But Jebus PWND!!! de demunz out lolz, 
den he cud say stufz. Evrywuz liek, "ZOMGWTF!!! 
dis nevr hapen bein Isrel!!!" 

But da Farisees, dey wuz sayin "He can onlie pwn 
demunz cuz he wuz da prinz of demunz." 

So newayz, Jebus walkd thru menny landz and stufz, 
heelin ppls and preechin de Gud Newz of da Ceiling 
Cat.He saw lotz of ppls, and felt sorrie fur dems, 
cuz dey wuz like poor lttl sheepies wit no shperd 
:(.So Jebus toldz his disyplles, "Ok guyz, dere's 
big hrvest of fudz, but no wurkrs fur gettin dose 
fudz. Oh noes!!!Gotta pray to Ceiling Cat fur mor 
wurkrs, kthx." 

Jebus calld his twelve disciplez an givs dem teh 
powr to shoo demonz an heel efrybudy.Deez r teh 
namez ov his twelve disciplez: furst, Simon (can 
also call himz Petr) an his bruthr Andrew; den 
Jamez an John hoo r bruthrz;Filip an Bartholomew; 
Thomas an Matthew teh muneh taker; teh othur 
Jamez, an Thaddaeus;Simon numbur two, an Judas 
Iscariot (hoo becomz stinkeh kitteh an betrayz 
Jebus later on!).Befor Jebus sent out theez twelve 
gais, he teld dem: "DO NOT go over wif teh 
Gentilez or teh samaritanz.Jus go find mai lost 
kittehs ov israel.Deh whole tiem, shoutz dis: 
"CEILING CAT'S HOUS IS SO CLOSE GAIS! Is right ovr 
here!"Gets rid ov teh fleez, raize teh ded, shoo 
teh demons, baesicly make evrybudy betteh. An 
remember getz all your cookehs for free, so don be 
takin any monehs from kittehs. Just gif to dem for 
free."Don taek ne munnehs wif u,and no bag or 
extra shirtz or shooz or toyz or ne stuffs at all, 
cuz u can jus earn yur cheezburgers wen u need 
it.Evrywer u go, look for som nice kitteh thar an 
stay at dat persons hous til u leav.Say "O hai!" 
to teh hous wen u coemz in.If is good hous, gif it 
sum peace; if is not, taek ur peace bak.if anybudy 
is rude an doesnt lissen to ur werdz, jus shaek 
teh dust off ur paws when u leef dat plaes.Srsly, 
will be bettr for dos stinkiest cities Sodom an 
Gomorrah on teh dai ov PWNage than for dat 
place."Look, i sendin u out liek itteh bitteh 
kittehs among big ugli dogs wif big nasti teef. 
Can easily nom yoos little kittehs. So be rly rly 
smart, an purfect angels.Look out for dem; Thoz 
stinkeh doggehs will probly nom u an skratch u all 
teh tiem.Dey will probly also maekz u go in frunt 
evryone an say stuff to be liek "omg look tolds u 
deyz talkin bout Jebus!"But wen dis happens, do 
not be scaredz an nervous bout wut to say or 
anyting, Cuz den i will alwayz maek shur u say teh 
rite words.Cuz its not be u makin up doz grate 
words: Hovr cat be in ur mowf, sayin ur wordz for 
u."All deez kittehs will be mean and alwayz 
skratchin each othr,an evryone will hate u cuz u 
luv me, but any kitteh who suks it up and staez 
strong teh whole tiem, i save himz.Wen dey skratch 
u in wun place, jus run awai to a diffrent place. 
Srsly, ur never gonna get to all deez places 
before i comez bak agin."Students r not bettah den 
der teechrs, an hoomins not bettah then their 
kittehs.Dey can jus be liek their teachr, an 
hoomins be liek their kittehs, an lernz frum dem 
jus liek dey can lernz frum Jebus. If sumbdy calld 
teh head kitteh ov teh hous "Beelzebub Nb LOLz", 
deyr gunna call hiz hoomins much worse naemz!"But 
is okai, don be skared, thar iz nothin hidin dat i 
will not show.Stuff i tell u in sekrit, speek in 
da open; wut iz wissperd in ur earz, shoutz and 
screamz it frum teh roofs.Do not be fraid ov gais 
jus kuz dey kills bodies, becuz dey cannot kill 
SOULZ. Jus be skard ov teh evil wan hoo can 
destroy bodyz AND soulz in hell.Teh birdehs are 
worth basikly nofing to ppl, but i even savez 
dem!I even noes bout evry singel wun ov ur hares 
LOL.So doan be afraid little kitteh! U r hol lot 
moar speshul to me den doez birdehz!"So anyone hoo 
sez how much dey luvs me to all der othr kittehs, 
den i tell Ceiling Cat bout dem too.but whoevr sez 
to kittehs dat dey don noes who i am an don likez 
me, im gonna be dissin dem to mai fathr Ceiling 
Cat."Don be tinkin dat i has come to brin jus all 
dis peace an cheezburgerz to de urf. I brot sharp 
claws an teef, akshuly.i has come to turns ppl 
aganst each othr.U will get ins fites wif teh ppl 
in ur own haus!' [d]"Anybody who luvs sum kitteh, 
even der mommy or daddy or chilenz, doesnt deserv 
mai cheezburgers.Also ppl who doez not taek up 
their cross an follow me iz not worthy ov mai luv 
either.Evry tiem u findz sum cookehs in ur life u 
will looz it, but whoevr losez their cookeh for me 
will find it agin."anyone hoo welcomez u welcomez 
me, an anyone hoo welcomez me welcomez teh wan hoo 
sent me.whoevr welcomez a profet known to be 
predictin teh fewcher becuz he's a profet will 
gets a profet's cookeh, an whoevr welcomez a gud 
kitteh will receiv gud cookehs.an if anyone givez 
even cup ov watr to wun ov theez itteh bitteh 
chilenz hoo iz mah kitteh.. srsly, dat person will 
defnitly get lotsa cookehs." 

And it did coems to liek pass, when Jesus had liek 
maded a end of telling his peeps who really liekd 
him, he went liek left so that he can learn and 
preahces in teir places of many people.Now when 
liek John had hearded in teh place where u go if u 
liek preak teh rules, and ai mean really break em 
in teah works of Christ, he sended two of him 
disciples through teh ineternets,And say to his, 
is u he that is to come, or does we sees 
another?Jeus answered him and liek say to his, Go 
and show John more of teh tings you've seen and 
heard:Teh no seeing gets some seeing, and teh no 
walk get walk, teah nasty, come clean, and teh no 
hear hear, teh no live come live, and teh poor 
have teh gospel preached to tem.And goodly good in 
life are he, who will not be offended in my.And as 
tey leaved, Jesus begun ta sez to teh many worring 
bout John, Wat gone yuz out into teh wildy to see? 
sees, tey tat were nice softly soft clothing are 
in head royal ppls hoze.But wat goned yu oust fur 
to see? A good guy that sez da truf? Yes, ai sez 
to yuz, and more tan a profat.But wat goned u oust 
fur too see? Yessum. A Seercat. Yes. ai saz to 
yuz, and more tan a Profat.Fur dis are him, of 
who'd it r wroted. Looki, ai sent my meszage guy 
in ur face, I'll put yur idea nfront of 
yuz.Importantly ai saz to u, wif teh kittehs of 
normaled woman wil raiz a great cat John teh 
Washerer : teh guy dat lowerest in teh kingdom of 
Ceiling. SrslyTeh Kingdom of Ceiling has alwayz 
been gettin more Cheezburgerz and liek more land 
to grow teh Cheezburger treez and Catz help dem 
wif out question. SrslyFur all of teh liek 
impertantz ppl all liek saz stufz to John and teh 
Sazer ppl. Srsly.Plus liek if yur liek wilding to 
liek accepted it, him is liek teh Elikhat.Him who 
haz liek earz let he liek hera.But wat liek ai 
shuld comparz dis genration? Dey are all liek 
kittehs in liek teh feed buy place. SrslyWe liek 
gived yu teh awesome music from teh flutz (Srsly) 
but liek yu not danced srlsy; we sang a sad sung 
and liek yu not run out of happy.Fur liek John no 
liek come eatin or liek no drinkin, them liek sez 
"Him are a cat wif no fur" SrslyThe guy kitteh 
caem drinkin liek milk and liek eatin 
cheezburgerz, and them sez "Lookey here, fatcat 
and him liek a drink milk to much, a budy of teh 
cheezburgerz taker, and invisible error doer" But 
teh smartness is showed by she acxion. Srsly No 
more happy for teh no admit cities 

Then Jebus begin to liek say cities were him do 
miriclez cuz liek dey no admit der invisible 
errors. Srsly"No happy to yu Korazin! No happy to 
yu Bethesda! If the mirclez had be did in liek 
Tyre and Sidon, they'd aks furgivins many time ago 
srsly in food sacks and ashs'. srslyBut ai sez to 
yu, it bez much liek easierz for Tyre and Sidon on 
the day of judes. srsly.And yu Capernum will be 
moved to teh skies? Yu will go down to teh 
depfs.Srsly. If teh mirclz that wer purformz n yu 
were been purformz in sodom, it still be here till 
this day. Srlsy.But ai sez yu dat are be more 
easier to be endurded for Sodom on teh day of 
juges dan fur yu. Srsly. Sleep for teh Tiredz 

At the time Jebus saz, "Ai praized yu, Father 
lords of teh Ceiling and Urf, cuz yu have hidded 
dese things from teh wize and learnered, and 
showed dem to teh kittehs.Yes Dad, this was gewd 
timez. 

"All things has be done to me by mah fasha. Nobody 
knows teh Son except teh Fasha, and nobody knows 
teh Father cept teh Son and dose who teh Son shows 
he. "Comed to me, all yu who is tiredz and hurted, 
and ai shall gived yu sleepz.Taked mai good onto 
you and learnz from me, for Iz gentle and calmed 
in teh heart, Srsly and you will find sleepz for 
yur solez.For mai good are easy and mai hard times 
are light. Srsly" 

At dat time, Happy Cat goed tru da grain on 
Caturday. His desiples wanted moar kibble an wuz 
in teh grainfield, eaten dem grains.Wen Fairy-sees 
sawz dis, dey say to he, "Nb, yur desiples be 
offendin Ceiling Cat on Caturday!!!!!"Happy Cat 
den say, "Haz yu not readz abot wotz David didz 
wen he an him compinyuns waz hungryz?"He enterz 
Ceiling Cat's home an eated his cheezburgers, 
maybe you is read dat.Or hasnt yu readz dat 
priestz work on caturday but them stillz 
inocents?Iz tellin yu dat sumfin moar better than 
teh temple ist here.If youz haz knowed wut dem 
wordz mean, 'I can has mercy, not sackerfice,' yu 
not wud has condemened teh inocents.For teh sonz 
of kittehs is lord ob teh Caturday. Srsly!" 

Goings on from dem places, he wents into teh 
Ceiling Catz shrinesan a cat wif a shwirveled paw 
was der. Dem Fairy-sees wants reason to accuze 
Happy Cat, dey asked him "It be lawzful to heelz 
on Caturday?"An Happy Cat sed to dem, "If yuz has 
a sheep an it felled in a pit on Caturday, wud yu 
not helps it out?!Duh! Iz lawzful to do gudz on 
Caturday!!!"Den Happy Cat say, "Giv me yur paw, 
kthx." Da man doez this, an he wuz maded 
better.But da Fairy-sees went outz an plotted to 
killz Happy Cat. Ceiling Catz Chozen Servent 

Wen Happy Cat knowed dis, him went awayz. Many 
followin him, an him heelded all dem sicks,sayin 
themz not to tellz who he wuz,Dis is cuz Isaiah 
wuz sayin dis long agoes: 

"Heerz my servent, who iz picked. teh one ai luvs, 
wit my catness delightz; I maeks him hover laik 
me, cuz iz fun, srsly; an him will bringed justace 
to them nayshuns of cats; 

Him not will haf any catfites; An yu gonna not 
heer him yowl in dem streets. 

Him not gonna break a broozed reed, whatever dem 
is; nether will he makez flickering lightbulb go 
out; till him bringed justace to vick-trees; 

in hiz name teh catz will put dem hopez." 

Den deyz bringin Happy Cat sum guy who is pozessed 
by teh basement catz minionsez, and does not see 
or spaeks, an Happy Cat heeld him, an teh cat cud 
see an heerz agin.All dem kittehs were liek 
"NOWAI!!" and dey say, "Can dis be da Kitten of 
Davidz?" 

But wen da Fairy-sees heer dis, dem sez, "Iz 
Beezlebubz, teh prince of basement cat, dat dis 
kitteh drivez outz teh deemuns. 

Happy Cat noez dey is saying dis, and sez to dem, 
"All dem kingdums in peeces agenst itselfz will be 
maed bad, an all dem citehs or pack haus in peeces 
agenst itselfz not can stands.If basement cat 
drives out basement cat, himz in peeces agenst 
himselfz. How canz his kingdums stand? Duh!An if 
iz drivin out teh deemuns by Beezlebub, whoz yur 
kittehs drivin dem out wif?! Dem gonna be yur 
judge!But if iz drivin out teh deemuns wif teh 
Hover Cat, then teh Ceiling Kingdums comin here 
wif yu. 

"Or agin, how yu can go into teh haus ownd by a 
strong cat an take away him toyz if yu not gonna 
tie him up first? Then yu can take away him toyz. 
Srsly! 

If yuz not wif me yuz agenst me, an if yu not 
cuddle wif me yu go away!An so I telled yu, every 
invisible error an bad wurds is gonna be maed okay 
for kittehs, but bad wurds against teh Hover Cat 
is not gonna be maed okay.If yu speek a wurd 
agenst teh Kitten of Cats, yu gonna be maed okay, 
but if yu speek a wurd agenst teh Hover Cat yu is 
not gonna be maed okay, not in this wurld an not 
in teh next wurld. 

Maek a tree gud an itz froot will be good, or maek 
a tree bad an itz froot will be bad, cuz a tree is 
knowd by itz froot.Yu pile of dogz, howcome yuz 
evil tryin to say things good? Cuz iz yur heart 
that maeken dem words! Srsly!Teh gud kitteh 
bringed fun playing from teh gud datz in him, an 
teh bad cat bringed catfites from teh bad datz in 
him.But iz tellin yu dat cats will haf to splain 
on teh judgemint day for all teh careles wurds dem 
speeked.Cuz by yur words yu will be maed okay, an 
by yur words yu will be locked in teh basement! 

An then sum Fairy-sees an teechers of teh lawz sez 
to him, "Teecher, we can has meeracle from yu?" 

Him sed, "An evul an cheetin breedz askin me fer a 
meeracle! But none of dem gonna get it except teh 
sign of teh proffit Jonah.Cuz liek Jonah was tree 
dayz in an tree nights in teh belly of teh beeg 
fisheh, so teh kitten of catz gonna be in teh 
heart of teh urfs.Teh cats of Nineveh gonna stand 
at teh judgemint wif yur breed an lock dem in teh 
basement, cuz demz said dem wur bad at teh 
preechin of Jonah, an now one bigger than Jonahz 
heer.Teh Queen of teh Soufz gonna rise at teh 
judgemint wif yur breed an lock dem in teh 
basement, cuz she camed from teh ends of teh urfs 
to heer Solomon say smart thingz, an now one 
bigger than Solomonz heer! Srsly! 

When teh evul spiritz comin out of a cat, it goes 
tru dry places lookin fer a nap an not finds 
it.Then it sez, 'Iz gonna go back to da haus I 
left!' When it gets der, itz findin teh haus 
empty, all maed cleen an neat.Then it goes an 
taeks wif it seven other spirits moar evulz than 
itselfs, an they go in der and live der. An then 
teh cat is moar evul than he wuz before. Srsly! 
That is how itz gonna be wif yur breed. 

While Happy Cat wuz still speeking to dem cats, 
his mammacat an littermates wuz outside, wanting 
to talk wif him.Someone sez to him, "Yur mammacat 
an littermates iz outside, an dem wants to speek 
to yu! Kthx!" 

Him sez back, "Wut? Whoz my mammacat, an whoz my 
littermates?"He nosed at his desiples, an sed, 
"Herez my mammacat an littermates.Cuz if yuz doin 
teh will of my daddycat in teh Ceiling yuz my 
littermates and mammacat." 

Den Happy Cat goed out of teh houz n leid in som 
son beamz bai teh wet.Lotsa kittehs finded Happy 
Cat, so him gots a bukkit and sitted out in the 
wet, and teh kittehs did not want wet, so dey sitz 
on da beaches. 

Teh Happy Cat sed sum lols "Da kitteh had sum 
birdfudz grows.wHen he dropzed it in da streetz, 
sum burds nommed it.den som falz on teh roxorz, n 
teh seeds wuz liek "we're in ur dirtz, growing big 
realz" cuz dere wuzzn't much dirtz.teh sunny beams 
came and wuz lyek "GROWIN ROOTS, UR DOIN IT RONG" 
an wnet pyro ons emsum falls in teh scrachie 
bushez, and teh scratchies not wnat tehm gro gud 
so tehy pwnd dem.bt sum falled on teh gud dirt, 
where dey roflolled inbigg mommi and daddy plant, 
and dey gots real big. LOLYoos herded wot Iz sed? 
Srsly. 

Desipuls confoosed an axt Happy Cat "Y yoo talk 
liek iz fureva storee tiem?"An Jebus sed "Iz 
tellen yoos da seecruts uv da Ceiling but Iz nawt 
tellen da nbs, lol.Cuz iff yoos has cookies 
resapee yoos can has moar cookies butt iff yoos no 
can has resapee yoos no can has moar cookiesso Iz 
tels yoos storeesan da profet uv Isaiah is troo(iz 
nawt has tiem to tels yoo da profet agen go luks 
eet up ursalf [])But yoos can has cheezburgr ur 
moufs An bukkits ur pawzcoz iz nawt da lier cat, 
coz liering is invisibl errur and Ceiling Cat wil 
pwnzr." "Yoos still dun getz it, lol.k, da 
burdfuds on teh streetz wuz teh nbs taht ar srsly 
dum an get pwnzd bai evuls.da burdfuds on teh 
roXXors wuz persun who tink he no awl teh stratbut 
wehn he go into teh instance he gtz epic FAIL!!!!! 
roflmao,Den teh scratzie bush iz awl the stax uv 
sooper siez cheezburgrs an iff yoo eated too many 
sooepr siez cheezeburgr you getz fat An sqwish 
ursalf An get deded." 

"But teh burdfuds in teh gud dirt iz teh kitteh 
hoo heers AN undastans teh wurd uv Ceilin Cat, so 
he getz da cheezburgrs an cookies but he noes dat 
eateding too much uv dem wil maek u fat lol." 

Happy Cat den tolld a nuver storee. dis storee 
leik part too uv teh storee uv the kitteh wif da 
gud dirt.Wun dai dis kitteh hav naps An basement 
Cat maded weedz (nawt weedz dat iz da catnipz fr 
hoomins lol) gro in teh kitteh's weet farmso der 
wer weedz (nawt the gud wuns)groo wif der weets.An 
den teh slayv woekd teh kitteh an sed "Dere ar 
weedz in ur weets. We can has bong?"An teh kitteh 
sed "nbs dat nawt teh gud weedz. Dey bad weedz in 
da weets." An den teh slayvs uv teh kitteh sed 
"yoo wanna us ta pullem owt?"An teh kitteh sed 
"WTF ar yoos srsly??!!!yoo no hao much werks dat 
taek??!!!!?@Wez jus sorts dem owt wen we picks de 
crops An bern de stinkeh weedz (nawt teh gud stink 
lol)An puts teh gud weets in mah weet howse." 

So heers a storee abowt a musterd seed. Ceiling 
Cat kindom is leik musterd seed coz musterd seed 
maeks musterd an musterd is rly rly importen fur 
maeking cheezburgrs, so musterd seed iz importen 
liek Ceiling Cat kindom iz importen.Oh waet storee 
nawt ovah yet. Den liddel teeneh musterd seed get 
putted in teh grownd An groos into dis hooj tree 
An it rly bootafool An stuffz An teh burds leik 
it. K nao dats teh en. 

An I can has tellen nuver storee? Kingdum uv 
Ceiling iz leik yeest dat maeks da burgr rols dat 
they maek wit tree cupz uf flower to maek doh, an 
den doh rieses an den can maek cheesburgr. 

Den teh desiplus telld Jebus "nuff wit storees 
nao!!!!! Yoos bin talkin fur ages. Wez can has 
sleeps nao? kthxbai." 

. When Jesus heer, he go by boat into dezert plac 
n there were liek a bazillion ppl who follo him on 
fut out of the citiz LOL. 

. N OUR LORD see the ppl and he liek goz n heel 
their sick. 

. Teh dscpls sez to Jesus, "Teh peeps needz go 
homez and eatz." 

. But Jesus sez to dem, "STFU Nb, Dis party aint 
over... U feed teh peepz." 

. "Liek... U iz crazy man, we only gotz fiev 
cheezburgerz and two phishyz" Teh dscpls sed. 

. "Breeng dem to meh, and den tell all teh peepz 
sit in da grass!!" Jesus said. 

. He lookz up at teh Ceiling Cat, and sez "Ceiling 
Cat is Grand Ceiling Cat is gud... OMGHIU... 
KTHXBYE!" 

. Den he feeds teh peepz wit teh cheezburgerz and 
fishyz, and der wuz liek twelve-teen baskets left. 

. When teh BFIAA findz owt, dey sendz him a 
letter... "OMGHIU...U must payz us $per 
cheezburgerz and $per phishy dat U made teh copy 
of!!" 

. Then Jesus haz sum air An fire runez and he cast 
OMGHIUDHITBSTABHERDIAF!!!!! and teh BFIAA all 
wentz to hell!!! 

. OK so iz liek teh nites and Jesus camez out, and 
he iz srsly wlking ontop of teh waterz. 

. Teh dscpls sawed him and ar scured and tehy 
sayed "OMG haxx!" 

. But Jesus sez "O hai! Iz just me. lol." 

. "Hay dood. dat u?" sez Peter, "I can comez ontop 
teh waterz plz?" 

. "yah lol," sez Jesus. Den Peter camed ontop teh 
waterz and iz goes to Jesus. 

. But Peter sawed teh windz and he got scareded 
and he fallz in teh waterz and wus liek "Halp! 
Invisible sidewalk! DO NOT WANT!" 

. Jesus halps Peter and sez "U nb, ur doin it 
rong. Why U not beleev?" 

. N when they climb into da boat, the wind died 
down. 

. Den those who were in the boat wurshiped him nd 
wuz liek "OMG UR LIEK SRSLY TH SON OF CEILING 
CAT!one." 

. When they had crosd ovur, they landd at 
Gennesaret. 

. An when teh doodz ov dat place recognizd jebus, 
they sent werd all teh surroundin country. Peeps 
brought all their sick him 

. an beggd him let teh sick jus touch teh edge ov 
his cloak, an all hoo touchd him wuz heald! 

Then Scribes an Fariseez from Jerusalm showed up 
an sed"Y don't ur guyz follow da wayz of teh olden 
catz? Htey don't wash beatin! 

Jebus sed STFU ur dum rulez break teh rulez of 
Ceiling Cat!Ceiling Cat sed "Bez u good to papa An 
mama" and, "iff yuuz disses yur mommacat ur 
poppacat, you diez." 

But u say that whoevr sez to his mommacat or 
poppacat, "U NO CAN HAS! Is for Ceiling Cat!"iz 
gud. But Ceiling Cat hate htat! 

Toolz! Isaiah profisized about u when he sed 
"These kittehs alweyz say gud things about Me but 
suxxr!But wut they say doez no gud, cuz they teach 
as Ceiling Cat's lawz wut r rilly only kitteh 
laws." 

And Jebus sed to evrybody: "LISTEN UP!Iz not wut u 
eat that maeks u dirtie but wut comes out of u (an 
I don't mean hairbalz idiot I'm talking about mean 
wurds an stuf!)." 

Then his guyz sed "Uhh Jebus thoz guyz r pissed 
now." 

But Jebus sed "Evrthing not from Ceiling Cat is 
gun get killed!Who carez about dem? Htey r blinded 
and so r all der frendz so they will fall into a 
ditch lol." 

An Peter sed: "WUT, WUT!?" 

An Jebus said, "U NEWB!!!Look, wut u eat gos in ur 
mouth ends up in teh litterbox so who carez (srsly 
who cares)But wut u say comes from ur hart so 
htat's wut realy matterz.From teh hart come evil 
thoughtz, merderz, all teh bad kinds of sexxrz, 
stealings (RIAA lol!), liez, an blasfemieez.Thez r 
wut actualy maek u dirtie, so who carez if u eat 
without washen ur hands!?" 

Then Jebus an crew went to Tyre and Sidon (where 
der r lotz of nice beaches an sunshine and such). 

Then a girl-kitteh frum Canaan showed up an said 
rly rly loud: "HALP! HALP! HALP, O LORD, son of 
David! My litl girl-kitteh haz a devil!"But Jebus 
he ignord her. So his disciples were all liek, 
"Make her STFU!" 

But he sed, "I wuz sent only to teh lost kittehs 
of Israel." 

Then she an wurshiped him an saying, "Lord, halp 
plz." 

But he sed, "It is not gud to take the catnip from 
teh kittehs and give it to strayz!" (NEWBZ) 

An she said, "Ya, but even strayz eat teh bits of 
catnip that end up in teh trashcans."Jebus sed 
"Wow, finally sumbody who actualy getz it! I'll 
totaly halp your kitteh." An wen she went back 
home her kitteh was OK. 

Jebus left an cum to teh sea of Galilee. He went 
up a big hill an sat down. And he wuz like 
"GGGAAAHHH!!!!!! SO, MUCH, WALKING"And liek a 
bajillion kittehs came to him with all der friendz 
who were lame (lol NEWBZ), blind, dum (rofl 
copter), maimd, etc, and Jesus cast cure on all of 
dem.When they saw the dum speak (lol stil funny), 
an the maimd OK again, an the lame to walk (rofl 
lame), and the blind to see they were all leik 
"YEAH!!!! CEILINGCAT IZ AWZOMEZ!!!!!!!!!" 

Then Jebus sed to his guyz "I haz compassun on teh 
ddz, cuz they have lik bin wit me dayz but haz no 
cheezburgrs, an I wont send them away wifout some 
cookiez coz they would die an dat wuld be sad. 

His ddz were leik "Uhh... WTF? where r we gunna 
get foodz for them all? We r in teh middl of 
nowhere an we don't even haz can opener or 
nething!" 

An Jebus (probably ticked because srsly he just 
did this miracle liek minutes ago lol) sed, "Do 
you haz cheezburger?" An they said, "cheezburger 
an a few fishies." 

He told teh ddz to sit down,and he took the 
cheezburgerz and the fishies, and thanked Ceiling 
Cat and cut them up into bite-size pieces (teh 
fishes not teh cheezburgerz cuz srsly who wants to 
eat littl pieces of cheezburger? lol) and gave 
them to his ddz an they took teh foodz to all teh 
pplsAnd all teh ppl eated and were stuffd, an 
there were baskets full of leftovers. 

There were ,ppl (not even counting women an 
kids!).An Jebus sent away teh ddz, and rode 
invisible bike to teh coasts of Magdala. 

teh fariseez an sadduceez came Happy Cat an testd 
him by askin him show them sign frum heaven.he 
replid, [a] "when evenin comez, u say, it will be 
fair weathr, da sky iz red,an in da mornin, todai 
it will be stormy, da sky iz red an overcast. U 
knoe how interpret teh appearance ov teh sky, but 
u cant interpret teh signs ov teh tiems.wickd an 
adulterous generashun lookz sign, but nonez will 
be given it except teh sign ov jonah." Happy Cat 
den left them an wen away. 

when they went acros teh laek, teh disciplez 
forgot taek bread."be careful," Happy Cat sed 
them. "be on ur guard against teh yeast ov teh 
fariseez an sadduceez."they discusd dis among 
themselvez an sed, "it cuz we didnt brin any 
bread."aware ov their discushun, Happy Cat askd, 
"u ov lil faith, y r u talkin among yourselvez 
bout havin no bread?do u still not understand? 
Doan u remembr teh loavez da thousand, an how lotz 
da basketfuls u gatherd?or teh loavez da thousand, 
an how lotz da basketfuls u gatherd? how iz u doan 
understand dat i wuz not talkin u bout bread? But 
be on ur guard against teh yeast ov teh fariseez 
an sadduceez."den they understood dat he wuz not 
tellin them guard against teh yeast usd in bread, 
but against teh teachin ov teh fariseez an 
sadduceez. 

when Happy Cat came teh region ov caesarea 
filippi, he askd his disciplez, "hoo do peeps say 
teh son ov man iz?"they replid, "sum say john teh 
baptist; others say Elikhat; an still others, 
jeremiah or wan ov teh profets.""but wut bout u?" 
he askd. "hoo do u say im?"simon petr anzwerd, "u 
r teh mesiah, teh son ov teh livin ceilin 
cat."Happy Cat repleid, "blesd r u, simon son ov 
jonah, dis wuz not reveald u by flesh an blood, 
but by mah fathr in heaven.an i tell u dat u r 
petr, [b] an on dis rawk im gonna build mah 
church, an teh gatez ov death [c] will not 
overcome it.im gonna giv u teh keys ov teh kingdom 
ov heaven; whatevr u bind on earth will be [d] 
bound in heaven, an whatevr u loose on earth will 
be [e] loosd in heaven."den he orderd his 
disciplez not tell anyone dat he wuz teh mesiah. 

frum dat tiem on Happy Cat began explain his 
disciplez dat he must go jerusalem an suffr lotz 
da things at teh hanz ov teh Old Cats, teh chief 
cat priests an teh teachers ov teh kitty law, an 
dat he must be killd an on teh third dai be raisd 
life like da zombie kitty.petr took him aside an 
began rebuke him. "nevr, Happy Cat!" he sed. "dis 
shall nevr happen u!"Happy Cat turnd an sed petr, 
"git behind me, Basement Cat! U r stumblin block 
me; u do not has in mind teh concerns ov ceilin 
cat, but merely hooman concerns."den Happy Cat sed 
his disciplez, "whoevr wants be mah disciple must 
deny themselvez an taek up dere cros an follow 
me.whoevr wants save their nom [f] will lose it, 
but whoevr losez their nom me will find it and 
cheezburgers.wut gud will it be u gain teh all de 
cheezburgers, yet forfeit ur own nom? Or wut can u 
giv in exchange ur own nom?da son ov man iz goin 
come in his fathers glory wif his Bird Cats, an 
den he will reward evryone accordin wut they has 
dun."truly i tell u, sum hoo r standin her will 
not taste cheezburgerz nor death before they c teh 
son ov Ceiling Cat comin in his kingdom." 

Aftr dais Jesus took with him petr, jamez an john 
teh brothr ov jamez, an led them up high mountain 
by themselvez.thar he wuz tranzfigurd before them. 
His face shone liek teh sun, an his clothez became 
as wite as teh light!Jus den thar appeard before 
them mosez an Elikhat, talkin wif Jesus!Petr sed 
Jesus, "lord, it good us be here. If u wish, im 
gonna put up shelter - u,mosez an Elikhat."While 
he wuz still speakin, bright cloud coverd them, an 
voice frum teh cloud sed, "dis ar teh mah son, 
whom i luv; wif him im well pleezd. Listen 
him!"when teh disciplez herd dis, they fell 
facedown teh ground, terrifid.but Jesus came an 
touchd them. "git up," he sed. "doan be 
afraid."when they lookd up, they saw no wan except 
Jesus.as they wuz comin down teh mountain, jesus 
instructd them, "doan tell anyone wut u has seen, 
til teh son ov man has been raisd frum teh 
ded!"teh disciplez askd him, "y den do teh 
teachers ov teh law say dat Elikhat must come 
furst?"jebus replid, "be sure, Elikhat comez an 
will restore all things.but i tell u, Elikhat has 
already come, an they did not recognize him, but 
has dun him evrythin they wishd. In da same wai 
teh son ov man iz goin suffr at their hanz."den 
teh disciplez understood dat he wuz talkin them 
bout john teh baptist. 

When they came teh crowd, man approachd jesus an 
knelt before him."lord, has mercy on mah son," he 
sed. "he has seizurez an iz sufferin greatly. He 
often falls into teh fire or into teh watr.i 
brought him ur disciplez, but they cud not heal 
him.""U unbelievin an perverse generashun," jesus 
replid, "how long shall i stay wif u? How long 
shall i put up wif u? Brin teh boy hear me."Jesus 
rebukd teh demon, an it came out ov teh boy, an he 
wuz heald frum dat moment.den teh disciplez came 
jesus in private an askd, "y couldnt we driv it 
out?"He replid, "cuz u has so lil faith.Srsly i 
tells u, if u has faith as tiny as kibble, u can 
say dis mountain, moov!, an it will moov. Nothin 
will be imposible u!" 

when they be hangin togethr in galilee, he sed 
them, "teh son ov man iz goin be deliverd ovar 
ebil kittehs.he will be killd, an on teh third dai 
he will be back to life but not zombie ew." an his 
homiez wuz filld wif sad. 

aftr jesus an his disciplez arrivd in capernaum, 
teh collectors ov teh -drachma temple tax came 
petr an askd, "doesnt ur teachr pai teh temple 
tax?""yez, he doez," he replid. When petr came 
into teh houz, jesus wuz teh furst speek. "wut do 
u finkz, simon?" he askd. "frum whom do teh kings 
ov teh earth collect duty an taxez -frum their own 
children or frum others?""frum others," petr 
anzwerd. "den teh children r exempt," jesus sed 
him."but so dat we cud not cause offense, go teh 
laek an throw out ur line. Taek teh furst fish u 
katch; open itz mouth an u will find -drachma 
coin. Taek it an giv it them mah tax an yours." 

Den teh disaiplz asked Jesus: "Who is teh graetest 
in teh Howse in Ceiling?"Jesus told a kitteh "yu, 
stand wif mai disaiplz",an Jesus told teh 
disaiplz: "Yarly, I is telling yu, if yu not 
become nice like tiny kittehz here, yu nevar gets 
into Howse in Ceiling.If yu is humbull liek littul 
kitteh heer, yu is graetest in Howse in Ceiling.An 
if anyun axepts an welcoms kittehs like dis in Mai 
Naem, den tehy also axepts an welcoms Me, an dey 
can has cheezburger. 

But if anyun maeks a littul kitteh to maek an 
invisible error, dey no can haz cheezburger, 'cos 
making little kitteh maek invisible errors iz 
worse than falling into bathtub. Deep bathtub, 
with claws stuck in scratchpost!Oh noes tu wurld 
for errors! Errors happens, dis troo, but oh noes 
on teh cat wut maeks teh errors.Iffen yur paw 
cauzez yu to make invisible errors, yu cuts it off 
if yu knoes wuts best fur yu. For havin lief for 
evur wifout a paw, iz better den havin all for 
pawz an burnun in fier for evur.An if yur eye 
cauzez yu to make invisible errors, claw it out 
and frow it away. 'Cos havin lief wif wun eye is 
bettar den havin tu eyez and go-un tu teh Hell 
Fier. 

B keerfle not haet teh little kittehs. Cos teh 
little kittehs has hovr dds what alweys sees teh 
face of my Daddy in Ceiling.Cos teh Kitteh ov 
Kitteh came to save lost stuffs.What does u think? 
If a cat has a hunnerd sheeps, an loses , duznt he 
leaves teh ohter in house, and goes look teh lost 
?An if he finds it, ya rly, I sez it, he iz 
happier for teh he founded den for teh what 
stayded hoem.Just liek dat, our Daddy in Ceiling 
wants saev every singel one of teh kittehs. 

If ur bruther makes invisible error at u, go him 
in sekrit, and tell him "u did wrong" so noels 
hearz it. If he listens, u can haz a bruther 
again.If he no listen, u gets a few witnisis, and 
bring witnessis wit u, to maek him listen.An if he 
still no listen, u tells it to all of church! But 
if he no listen church, u nots enymoar treat him 
liek bruther. Treat him liek bad cat from teh 
house across teh road, or liek a cat that is in ur 
house, drinking ur milk.YA RLY, what you messes 
into a ball of string here on urths, it still be 
tied up in string in Ceiling. And if you sets 
sumthing lose on urths, it be free in Ceiling.I 
sez it agin: If two of you cats on urths agree to 
ask for sumthings, then Ceiling Cat, who is my 
daddy in Ceiling, he does it.Cos if or of you are 
gether and u sez My Naem, I iz with u. Srsly." 

Peter had kwestshun. He said to teh Ceiling Cat: 
"How many tiems do I give my bruther if he makes 
invisible error at me? Seven tiems?"Jesus sed to 
Peter: "No wai, I did not say times. U must 
forgive ur bruther's invisible error over nine 
thousand times!So teh Howse in Ceiling is liek a 
king who wanted all dets made fixed wit the cats 
working for him.Kingcat did so and found Workercat 
what wuz supposed to pay him over nine thousand 
munney.But Workercat no had nine thousand munney. 
So Kingcat said "Taek his cheezburger away, and 
sell it so I can haz munney."Workercat was very 
sad and said: "No wai, plz! I can haz moar time, 
and I pays u ur munney, promise!"So teh Kingcat 
was a nice cat and maded teh debt go away.But 
Workercat found anuther cat what had a det of a 
few munnies to Workercat. (Not many.) Workercat 
wuz angry at Othercat and said "U pays me or 
els!"So Othercat was very sad and said: "No wai, 
plz! I can haz moar time, and I pays u ur munney, 
promise!"But Workercat no gived Othercat moar 
time. He maded Othercat get locked in box until he 
payded.Lots of cats wer looking an saw whut 
Workercat did. Teh Lookingcats wuz sad and tolded 
Kingcat whut happened.Kingcat made frowny face at 
Workercat and sed: "Srsly, dd, u iz bad cat. I 
maded ur debt go away cos u was sad.Y u not maded 
Othercat's det go away when he wuz sad?"An Kingcat 
was not happy, and maded Workercat's det un-go 
away, and said to Torchurcat: "U can scratch 
Workercat until he gives me teh munneys he 
owed."(Jesus talking again) "An mah Daddy in 
Ceiling, he does same u if u not give ur bruther 
his invisible errors." 

When Jebus had finishd sayin thees things, He left 
Galilee an went into teh region ov Judea to teh 
othr side ov teh Jordan.Large crowdz followd Him, 
an He heald them thar. 

Sum Fariseez came to Him to test him. Dey askd, 
"Iz lawful for man to divors him wife for any an 
evry reason?" 

"Havnt yu read," He replid, "Dat at teh beginnin 
teh Creator made them male an femalean sed, for 
dis reason man will leef his Fathr an Mommy an be 
unitd his wife, an teh will become wan flesh.So 
they r no longr , but wan. Therefore wut Celing 
Cat has joind togethr, let man not separate. 

"Y den," they askd, "Did Mosez command dat man giv 
his wife certificate ov divorce an send her away?" 

Jebus replid, "Mosez permitted U divorce ur wivez 
cuz ur hearts wuz hard. But it wuz not dis wai 
frum teh beginnin.""I tell U dat anyone hoo 
divorcez his wife, except marital unfaithfulnes, 
an marriez anothr woman commits adultery." 

Teh disciplez sed Him, "If dis ar teh situashun 
tween husband an wife, it better not marry." 

Jebus replid, "Not everyone can accept dis werd, 
but only dose whom it has been given."Sum r 
eunuchs cuz they wuz born dat wai; others wuz made 
dat wai by doodz; an others has renouncd marriage 
cuz of teh Kingdom ov Heaven. Teh wan hoo can 
accept dis shud accept it." 

Then little children were brought to Jesus for him 
to place his hands on them and pray for them. But 
the disciples rebuked those who brought them. 

Jebus sez, "Let teh itteh bitteh kettehs come meh, 
and do not hinder dem, teh ceiling of heaven 
belongz kittehs liek dem."Wen hee had put hiz paws 
on dem, he went on from der. 

Now a dd cames up to Jebus an ask, "Teacher, I 
does wat gud stuf so I can has eeturmal lyfs?"* 

"Whai ju aks me abot whut goodz?" Jebus saied. 
"Der onlee Wun iz goodz. U wants has lyfs, U obyz 
teh comandamanamenz." 

"Whut comandamanamenz?" aks teh reech kitteh. 
Jebus saied, " 'No kilin doodz, no sexin owtsayd 
marege, no taksin cheezburgr from peepuls, no can 
tells lai,respeckz ur momz and daz,' an 'luvz ur 
naibors but not wif sexin.'" 

"Did dat aredy, srsly. I can has eeturmal lyfs 
nao?" 

Jebus den sais, "If u wan bee purfex, go, sel ur 
stufs an gevs ur cheezburgrs teh pors, n den u can 
has invisible cheezburgr. Den cum, fowul meez." 

Den reech mans went awai sadz, becuz he hadz many 
monys. 

Den Jeezus sai to hiz desiplz, "Im teh srs, it teh 
sux a rich kittn to go teh Ceiling.Aiz tel yu geiz 
agin, it srsly moar easier graet daen to fit in 
teh tiny cat cariur dan for fancey feast kitteh 
two go to teh Howse uf teh Ceiling Cat."\ 

Disipulz hearz, dey leik NO WAI!!HU B SAEVD DEN?? 

Jeezus lukee dem, sai, "Wif manz dis iz FAIL, but 
wif Ceiling Cat evrytingz lolcodable." 

Petrz leik, "Weez lef ar stufs folow u! Can has 
cheezburgr or cookie or wut?" 

Jeezus dun sai demz, "Ai tell u trewfs, @ teh 
restart, wen Sun of Kittehs sits on his kewl cat 
condo, u wil urselfs sit on twelv cat condoz, 
judgin teh twelv breedz uv Israel.An evrybudiez 
lef howsiz or brovrz or sisez or studz or queenz 
or kittnz or catbowlz maek me cheezburgr will has 
awsum intrist raet on IOUz an wil has 
zombi-ness.But meny hu r kewl wil has teh suck, an 
meny hu iz teh suck wil has moar cheezburgrs. 

Hokai, teh ceiling iz liek a dood tat has a howse, 
who wakes up in teh earlee mornin get kittehs werk 
himz. and he sed "i only gonna give u penny 
LOLZ!!" and teh kittehs sez "hokai" and dey go do 
teh werk"bout in da mornin he went out an saw 
others standin in da marketplace doin nothin.he 
told them, u also go an werk in mah vineyard, an 
im gonna pai u whatevr iz rite.so they went. "he 
went out again bout noon an bout in da afternoon 
an did teh same ting.bout in da afternoon he went 
out an findz still others standin around. He askd 
them, y has u been standin her all dai long doin 
nothin?" cuz no wan has hird us, they anzwerd. "he 
sed them, u also go an werk in mah vineyard."when 
evenin came, teh ownr ov teh vineyard sed his 
supervisor, call teh werkers an pai them their 
wagez, beginnin wif teh last onez hird an goin on 
teh furst."teh werkers hoo wuz hird bout in da 
afternoon came an each receivd penny.so when dose 
came hoo wuz hird furst, they iz liek, "i can has 
moar?". But each wan ov them also receivd 
penny.when they receivd it, they began grumble 
against teh landownr.thees doodz hoo wuz hird last 
werkd only wan hour, they sed, an u has made them 
equal us hoo has borne teh burden ov teh werk an 
teh heat ov teh dai."but he anzwerd wan ov them, 
frend, i r not bean unfair u. Didnt u agree werk 
penny?taek ur pai an go. I wants giv teh wan hoo 
wuz hird last teh same as i gaev u.doan i has teh 
rite do wut i wants wif mah own money? Or r u 
envious cuz im generous?"so teh last will be 
furst, an teh furst will be last." 

nao happy cat wuz goin up jerusalem. On teh wai, 
he took teh twelve aside an sed dem"we r goin up 
jruslem, an teh son ov ceilin cat will be deliverd 
ovar teh meen peples. They will condemn him 
deddinan will giv him teh gentilez be maded funs 
of and hurted and den dedded!! On teh third dai he 
will be raisd life!" 

den teh mommy ov zebedeez sons came jesus wif her 
sons an, kneelin down, askd favor ov him."wut iz u 
wants?" he askd. She sed, "grant dat wan ov thees 
sons ov mine cud sit at ur rite an teh othr at ur 
left in ur kingdom.""u doan knoe wut u r askin," 
happy cat sed them. "can u drink teh cup im goin 
drink?" "we can," they anzwerd.happy cat sed them, 
"u will inded drink frum mah cup, but sit at mah 
rite or left iz not me grant. Thees placez belong 
dose whom they has been prepard by mah fathr."when 
teh herd bout dis, they wuz indignant wif teh 
brothers.happy cat calld them togethr an sed, "u 
knoe dat teh rulers ov teh gentilez lord it ovar 
them, an their high officials exercize authority 
ovar them.not so wif u. Instead, whoevr wants 
become great among u must be ur servant, an whoevr 
wants be furst must be ur slave -jus as teh son ov 
man did not come be servd, but serve, an giv his 
life as ranzom lotz da." 

as happy cat an his disciplez wuz leavin jericho, 
large crowd followd him.blind doodz wuz sittin by 
teh roadside, an when they herd dat happi cat wuz 
goin by, they shoutd, "cat, son ov dat man-person, 
has teh mercy on us!"teh crowd rebukd them an told 
them be quiet, but they shoutd all teh loudr, 
"dood, son ov dat guy, has mercy on us!"happy cat 
stoppd an calld them. "wut do u wants me do u?" he 
askd."dood," they anzwerd, "I can has 
eyesight?"happy cat had compashun on them an 
touchd their eyez. Immediately they got dere 
eyesite an followd him. 

An den Jeezus got intuh Bethphage clos ta 
Jerusalem. Dey werz on a heepz ov salty grapz. Den 
hee sed go to too kitty jeezezes. 

He dun toldzem. Goto dem hutz and fine some ass 
and a fillee; bring herz to me. 

An if deez gize giv yuh guff. Yo meau. 
Baybee-Ceiling-Cat Jeebas wantz em. Hee wilz shutz 
up den. 

It allz happenz lik hee sed. Lik hee haz seez duh 
fyoocher an sez so. 

Jebus sayed "A naiz hooman had two kittehz. Him 
sayz to first kitteh, 'good kitteh, yu goes 
outside nao.'" 'DO NOT WANT! iz rainz,' teh kitteh 
sayz bak. But later is sunni so kitteh goes 
outside."Den hooman sayz other kitteh 'yu goes 
outside nao'. Dis kitteh says, 'okbai'. But dis 
kitteh don't goed outside, kitteh hides under 
bed."Which kitteh iz bestest kitteh?" is Jebus 
trix kwestshun. "wtf dis meanz?" disaiplz askd. 
Jebus sayed, "I sayz srsly, yu is all dum ass, da 
tax hoomanz, and Romens, and gud jewz, and bad 
jewz, and fat peepl, and Samariarntans and hookerz 
are goes up to ceiling before of yuz. 
srykthnxbai.John showded yu to be good kitteh, and 
yuz did not want. Da tax hoomanz, and Romens, and 
gud jewz, and bad jewz, and fat peepl, and 
cheesemakers, and greeks hookerz dided. And even 
after yuz saw this, yu still dum ass, srsly. 

jesus spoke them again in parablez, sayin:"teh 
kingdom ov heaven iz liek king hoo prepard weddin 
banquet his son.he sent his servants dose hoo had 
been invitd teh banquet tell them come, but they 
refusd come."den he sent sum moar servants an sed, 
tell dose hoo has been invitd dat i has prepard 
mah dinnr: mah oxen an fattend kattle has been 
butcherd, an evrythin iz ready. Come teh weddin 
banquet."but they paid no attenshun an went 
offâ€”wan his field, anothr his busines.teh 
rest seizd his servants, mistreatd them an killd 
them.teh king wuz enragd. He sent his army an 
destroyd dose murderers an burnd their city."den 
he sed his servants, teh weddin banquet iz ready, 
but dose i invitd did not deserve come.go teh 
street corners an invite teh banquet anyone u 
find.so teh servants went out into teh streets an 
gatherd all teh peeps they cud find, teh bad as 
well as teh gud, an teh weddin hall wuz filld wif 
guests."but when teh king came in c teh guests, he 
noticd man thar hoo wuz not wearin weddin 
clothez.frend, he askd, how did u git in her 
without weddin clothez? Teh man wuz speechles."den 
teh king told teh attendants, tie him hand an 
foot, an throw him outside, into teh darknes, wer 
thar will be weepin an gnashin ov teeth."lotz da r 
invitd, but few r chosen." 

{den teh fariseez went out an laid planz trap him 
in his werdz.they sent their disciplez him along 
wif teh herodianz. "teachr," they sed, "we knoe 
dat u r man ov integrity an dat u teach teh wai ov 
ceilin cat in accordance wif teh truth. U arent 
swayd by others, cuz u pai no attenshun hoo they 
r.tell us den, wut iz ur opinion? Iz rite pai teh 
imperial tax [a] caesar or not?"but jesus, knowin 
their evil intent, sed, "u hypocritez, y r u tryin 
trap me?show me teh coin usd payin teh tax." they 
brought him denarius,an he askd them, "whose image 
iz dis? An whose inscripshun?""caesars," they 
replid. Den he sed them, "giv bak caesar wut iz 
caesars, an ceilin cat wut iz ceilin cats."when 
they herd dis, they wuz amazd. So they left him an 
went away. 

dat same dai teh sadduceez, hoo say thar iz no 
resurrecshun, came him wif queshun."teachr," they 
sed, "mosez told us dat if man diez without havin 
children, his brothr must marry teh widow an raize 
up offsprin him.nao thar wuz brothers among us. 
Teh furst wan marrid an did, an since he had no 
children, he left his wife his brothr.teh same 
ting happend teh second an third brothr, rite on 
down teh seventh.finally, teh woman did.nao den, 
at teh resurrecshun, whose wife will she be ov teh 
, since all ov them wuz marrid her?"jesus replid, 
"u r in error cuz u do not knoe teh scripturez or 
teh powr ov ceilin cat.at teh resurrecshun peeps 
will neithr marry nor be given in marriage; they 
will be liek teh angels in heaven.but bout teh 
resurrecshun ov teh dedâ€”has u not read wut 
ceilin cat sed u,i r ceilin cat ov abraham, teh 
ceilin cat ov isaac, an teh ceilin cat ov jacob 
[b]? He iz not teh ceilin cat ov teh ded but ov 
teh livin."when teh crowdz herd dis, they wuz 
astonishd at his teachin! 

hearin dat jebus had silencd teh sadduceez, teh 
fariseez got togethr.wan ov them, an expert in da 
law, testd him wif dis queshun:"teachr, which iz 
teh greatest commandment in da law?"jesus replid: 
" luv teh lord ur ceilin cat wif all ur hart an 
wif all ur soul an wif all ur mind. [c]dis ar teh 
teh furst an greatest commandment.an teh second iz 
liek it: luv ur neighbor as yourself. [d]all teh 
law an teh profets hang on thees commandments." 

while teh fariseez wuz gatherd togethr, jebus askd 
them,"wut do u finkz bout teh mesiah? Whose son iz 
he?" "teh son ov david," they replid.he sed them, 
"how iz den dat david, speakin by teh spirit, 
calls him lord? he sez," teh lord sed mah lord: 
"sit at mah rite hand Til i put ur enemiez Undr ur 
feet." [e]if den david calls him lord, how can he 
be his son?" no wan cud say werd in reply, an frum 
dat dai on no wan dard ask him any moar queshuns. 

den jebus sed teh crowdz an his disciplez:"teh 
teachers ov teh law an teh fariseez sit in mosez 
seat.so u must be careful do evrythin they tell u. 
But do not do wut they do,they do not practice wut 
they preach. they tie up heavy, cumbersome loadz 
an put them on othr peeps shoulders, but they 
themselvez r not willin lift fingr moov 
them."evrythin they do iz dun peeps c: they mak 
their fylacteriez [a] wide an teh tasels on their 
garments long;they luv teh place ov honor at 
banquets an teh most important seats in da 
synagoguez;they luv be greetd wif respect in da 
marketplacez an has peeps call them rabbi."but u r 
not be calld rabbi, u has only wan mastah an u r 
all brothers.an do not call anyone on earth fathr, 
u has wan fathr, an he iz in heaven.nor r u be 
calld teachr, u has wan teachr, teh mesiah.teh 
greatest among u will be ur servant.dose hoo exalt 
themselvez will be humbld, an dose hoo humble 
themselvez will be exaltd. 

"woe u, teachers ov teh law an fariseez, u 
hypocritez!U shut teh door ov teh kingdom ov 
heaven in peeps facez. U yourselvez do not entr, 
nor will u let dose entr hoo r tryin ."woe u, 
teachers ov teh law an fariseez, u hypocritez! U 
travel ovar land an sea win single convert, an den 
u mak dat convert twice as mutch child ov hell as 
u r."woe u, blind guidez! U say, if anyone swears 
by teh temple, it meanz nothin; but whoevr swears 
by teh gold ov teh temple iz bound by teh oath.u 
blind fools! Which iz greatr: teh gold, or teh 
temple dat makez teh gold sacrd?u also say, if 
anyone swears by teh altar, it meanz nothin; but 
whoevr swears by teh gift on teh altar iz bound by 
teh oath.u blind doodz! Which iz greatr: teh gift, 
or teh altar dat makez teh gift sacrd?therefore, 
anyone hoo swears by teh altar swears by it an by 
evrythin on it.an anyone hoo swears by teh temple 
swears by it an by teh wan hoo dwells in it.an 
anyone hoo swears by heaven swears by ceilin cats 
throne an by teh wan hoo sits on it."woe u, 
teachers ov teh law an fariseez, u hypocritez! U 
giv tenth ov ur spicez -mint, dill an cumin. But u 
has neglectd teh moar important matters ov teh law 
- justice, mercy an faithfulnes. U shud has 
practicd teh lattr, without neglectin teh formr.u 
blind guidez! U strain out gnat but swallow 
camel."woe u, teachers ov teh law an fariseez, u 
hypocritez! U clean teh outside ov teh cup an 
dish, but inside they r full ov gred an 
self-indulgence.blind farisee! Furst clean teh 
inside ov teh cup an dish, an den teh outside also 
will be clean."woe u, teachers ov teh law an 
fariseez, u hypocritez! U r liek whitewashd tombs, 
which look beautiful on teh outside but on teh 
inside r full ov teh bonez ov teh ded an evrythin 
unclean.in da same wai, on teh outside u appear 
peeps as righteous but on teh inside u r full ov 
hypocrisy an wickednes."woe u, teachers ov teh law 
an fariseez, u hypocritez! U build tombs da 
profets an decorate teh gravez ov teh righteous.an 
u say, if we had livd in da dais ov r ancestors, 
we wud not has taken part wif them in sheddin teh 
blood ov teh profets.so u testify against 
yourselvez dat u r teh descendants ov dose hoo 
murderd teh profets.fill up, den, teh measure ov 
teh sin ov ur ancestors!"u snakez! U brood ov 
vipers! How will u escape bean condemnd teh 
grave?therefore im sendin u profets an sagez an 
teachers. Sum ov them u will kill an crucify; 
others u will flog in ur synagoguez an pursue frum 
town town.an so upon u will come all teh righteous 
blood dat has been shd on earth, frum teh blood ov 
righteous abel teh blood ov zechariah son ov 
berekiah, whom u murderd tween teh temple an teh 
altar.truly i tell u, all dis will come on dis 
generashun."jerusalem, jerusalem, u hoo kill teh 
profets an stone dose sent u, how often i has 
longd gathr ur children togethr, as hen gathers 
her chickz undr her wings, an u wuz not 
willin.look, ur houz iz left u desolate. i tell u, 
u will not c me again til u say, blesd iz he hoo 
comez in da naym ov teh lord. [b]" 

jesus left teh temple an wuz walkin away when his 
disciplez came up him call his attenshun itz 
buildings."do u c all thees things?" he askd. 
"truly i tell u, not wan stone her will be left on 
anothr; evry wan will be thrown down."as jesus wuz 
sittin on teh mount ov olivez, teh disciplez came 
him privately. "tell us," they sed, "when will dis 
happen, an wut will be teh sign ov ur comin an ov 
teh end ov teh age?"jesus anzwerd: "watch out dat 
no wan deceivez u.lotz da will come in mah naym, 
claimin, i r mesiah, an will deceiv lotz da.u will 
hear ov wars an rumors ov wars, but c it dat u r 
not alarmd. Such things must happen, but teh end 
iz still come.nashun will rize against nashun, an 
kingdom against kingdom. Thar will be faminez an 
earthquakez in various placez.all thees r teh 
beginnin ov birf pains."den u will be handd ovar 
be persecutd an put death, an u will be hatd by 
all nashuns cuz ov me.at dat tiem lotz da will 
turn away frum teh faith an will betray an hate 
each othr,an lotz da false profets will appear an 
deceiv lotz da peeps.cuz ov teh increase ov 
wickednes, teh luv ov most will grow cold,but 
whoevr standz firm teh end will be savd.an dis 
gospel ov teh kingdom will be preachd in da whole 
wurld as testimony all nashuns, an den teh end 
will come."so when u c standin in da holy place 
teh abominashun dat causez desolashun, [a] spoken 
ov thru teh profet daniel "let teh readr 
understand"den let dose hoo r in judea run teh 
hillslet no wan on teh haustop go down taek 
anythin out ov teh houz.let no wan in da field go 
bak git their cloak.how dreadful it will be in 
dose dais pregnant women an nursin mothers!pray 
dat ur flight will not taek place in wintr or on 
teh sabbath.den thar will be great distres, 
unequald frum teh beginnin ov teh wurld til now - 
an nevr be equald again."if dose dais had not been 
cut short, no wan wud surviv, but da saek ov teh 
elect dose dais will be shortend.at dat tiem if 
anyone sez u, look, her iz teh mesiah! Or, thar he 
iz! Do not bleev it.false mesiahs an false profets 
will appear an perform great signs an wonders 
deceiv, if posible, even teh elect.c, i has told u 
ahead ov tiem."so if anyone tells u, thar he iz, 
out in da wildernes, do not go out; or, her he iz, 
in da innr rooms, do not bleev it.as lightnin dat 
comez frum teh east iz visible even in da west, so 
will be teh comin ov teh son ov man.wherevr thar 
iz carcas, thar teh vulturez will 
gathr."immediately aftr teh distres ov dose dais " 
teh sun will be darkend, An teh moon will not giv 
itz light; Teh stars will fall frum teh sky, An 
teh heavenly bodiez will be shaken. [b]"at dat 
tiem teh sign ov teh son ov man will appear in da 
sky, an all teh peoplez ov teh earth [c] will 
mourn. They will c teh son ov man comin on teh 
cloudz ov heaven, wif powr an great glory.an he 
will send his angels wif loud trumpet call, an 
they will gathr his elect frum teh windz, frum wan 
end ov teh heavens teh othr."nao lern dis leson 
frum teh fig tree: as soon as itz twigs git tendr 
an itz leavez come out, u knoe dat summr iz 
near.even so, when u c all thees things, u knoe 
dat it [d] iz near, rite at teh door.truly i tell 
u, dis generashun will certainly not pas away til 
all thees things has happend.heaven an earth will 
pas away, but mah werdz will nevr pas away. 

"but bout dat dai or hour no wan knows, not even 
teh angels in heaven, nor teh son, [e] but only 
teh fathr.as it wuz in da dais ov noah, so it will 
be at teh comin ov teh son ov man.in da dais 
before teh flood, peeps wuz eatin an drinkin, 
marryin an givin in marriage, up teh dai noah 
enterd teh ark;an they knew nothin bout wut wud 
happen til teh flood came an took them all away. 
Dat iz how it will be at teh comin ov teh son ov 
man.doodz will be in da field; wan will be taken 
an teh othr left.women will be grindin wif hand 
mill; wan will be taken an teh othr 
left."therefore keep watch, cuz u do not knoe on 
wut dai ur lord will come.but understand dis: if 
teh ownr ov teh houz had known at wut tiem ov nite 
teh thief wuz comin, he wud has kept watch an wud 
not has let his houz be brokd into.so u also must 
be ready, cuz teh son ov man will come at an hour 
when u do not expect him."hoo den iz teh faithful 
an wize servant, whom teh mastah has put in charge 
ov teh servants in his haushold giv them their fud 
at teh propr tiem?it will be gud dat servant whose 
mastah findz him doin so when he returns.truly i 
tell u, he will put him in charge ov all his 
posesshuns.but suppose dat servant iz wickd an sez 
him, mah mastah iz stayin away long tiem,an he den 
begins beat his fellow servants an eat an drink 
wif drunkardz.teh mastah ov dat servant will come 
on dai when he doez not expect him an at an hour 
he iz not aware ov.he will cut him piecez an 
assign him place wif teh hypocritez, wer thar will 
be weepin an gnashin ov teeth. 

"At that tyme the couch of the cieling will be 
like gurlz who can has some flashlites and go 
meetz teh man at teh door.wur stoopid and wur not 
stoopid.Teh stoopid gurlz gotz flashlites, but no 
baterys.Teh not stoopid onez brot baterys.Teh man 
wuz gonna be rly late, n tey al took a nap. 

"In teh night some dood yelld: 'It's teh man! Go 
meets him!' 

"Then al teh gurlz wok up n turnd on teh 
flashlites.Teh stoopid gurlz said to teh not 
stoopid gurlz: 'I can has ur baterys? Mine r 
dead.' 

"'No' teh not stoopid gurlz said 'These r mah 
baterys! Go buys some.' 

"But wile tey wur gone buyin teh baterys, teh man 
arived. Teh not stoopid gurlz went in wit teh man 
to his crib to parteh n tey close teh door. 

"Latr teh stoopid gurlz came. 'Dood!' tey said 'We 
r outsid r door, waitin for u to let us in!' 

"But teh man said 'Who r u? Go away, this is mah 
parteh!' 

"So keep redy for teh couch of the cieling, cus u 
don't kno wen Jebus is comin bak. 

It also wil be liek a CEO kitteh wif a big company 
goin on vacashun, who taeks all the monyz frum 
company and divideds it up and gav it all to the 
cleaning kittehs.To one he gav $billionz monyz, to 
anuther he gav $billionz monyz, and to anuther gav 
$billion monyz, each basd on whut he thot tey cud 
do. Tehn he left.Teh one wit $billonz went to stok 
brokerz and short-saled the Dow and crashed fiev 
companyz n gotz $billionz monyz.Teh one wit 
$billionz also went to stok brokerz n short-saled 
NASDAQ and crashed companyz and gotz $billonz 
monyz.But teh cleaning kitteh who got $billionz 
moneyz divided the monyz into ,$,pilz and put the 
monyz in free cheking accounts wif no interest but 
backed by FDIC so he wudn't looz enny o teh monyz. 
It wud al be saef. 

"Then teh CEO came bak from vacashun n asked teh 
cleaning kittehs, "I can has monyz?"Teh cleaning 
kitteh what gotz teh $billionz brot teh other 
$billionz he got. 'Suh,' he sayd, 'You can has gav 
me $billionz monyz. I gotz liek $billionz mor! I 
crashed teh Dow, but u can has mor monyz!' 

"Teh CEO sayd, 'O rly? No wai! Ur so awsum! U gud 
wit my monyz; so now I maekz you Viec Pressdent o 
Monyz for company! I so hapy, let's parteh!' 

"Teh cleaning kitteh what gotz $billionz monyz cam 
next. 'Suh,' he sayd, 'You can has gave me 
$billionz monyz; I gotz liek $billionz mor!' I 
braekded NASDAQ, but you can has mor monyz! 

"Teh CEO sayd, 'O rly? No wai! Ur so awsum! U gud 
wit my monyz; so now I maekz u Viec Pressdent o 
Saelz for company! I so hapy, let's parteh!' 

"Then teh saef cleaning kitteh caem. 'Suh,' he 
sayd, 'I knowz you can be meanys sumtimes, takin 
mor than wat u startd wit, cheetin, and takin 
stuffs dat isn't urs.So I gots scaerd n putted al 
ur monyz into saef accountz backed by teh guvmint. 
Look, I givz u bak ur allstuffs nao. U losteds 
nuffinz!' 

"Teh CEO sayd, 'You meenyhead poopyface kitteh! So 
u knew tat I tak mor tan I start wit n cheets n 
taks wat isn't mien?Then u shuld at leest hav put 
teh monyzs in CD to get teh compund interests n 
stufs!. 

" 'Tak al his monyz n giv it to teh guy who gotz 
$billionz monyz nao.For thoes what gots some wil 
get mor, n be rich n stuffs. Thoes who don't got 
nuffin wil have al their stuffs taken away from 
dem.N trow that stoopid cleaning kitteh outside, 
where dere r no couches, no monyz, no cheezburgers 
and no bukkits-- jest waters sprayin al over him. 
Srsly.' 

"Wen teh Jebus comez in hiz awesumness, n al teh 
angels wit 'im, he wil sit on 'is couch of teh 
ceilings awesumness.All teh nashuns will be 
gatherd before him, an he will separate teh peeps 
wan frum anothr as sheferd separatez teh sheep 
frum teh goats.he will put teh sheep on his rite 
an teh goats on his left."den teh king will say to 
dose on his rite, coem, yu hoo haz cheezburgrz 
from ceiling cat; taek ur kitteh toyz, teh kingdom 
prepard for yu since teh creashun ov teh urfs.i 
wuz hungry an u openz canz and not drai fuds, i 
wuz thirsty an u gaev me some bowlz, i wuz strangr 
an yu were liek, "o hai,"i had dirty furz an yu 
gaev me licks, i wuz sick an u rap pillz in ham, i 
scratch bathrum door an yu openz."den teh riteshus 
will say, Jebus, when did we c u hungry an gaev yu 
gushy fud, or thirsty an gaev yu milks?when did we 
see yu strangr an says "o hai," or durty furz and 
lick yu?"when did we know yu sick or stuck in 
bathroom and help yu?"teh king will says, srsly, 
whatevr yu did teh other kittehs, evn lame 
kittehs, yu liek did to me."den he will say to 
dose on his left, leav, you NO CAN HAS 
CHEEZBURGRZ, into teh Sink of Alwayz Be Wet yu go, 
an say hai to basement kat and stinky birdcatz.fer 
I has hunger an yu gave me dry fuds, i wuz thirsty 
an yu says "only got dry bowls,""i wuz strangr an 
yu did not say hai, i has durty furz and you wer 
liek "go lick selfs," i wuz sick an stuck in 
bathrum and you wer liek, "whatever." Lamerz."they 
also will say, lord, when did we see yu hunger or 
thirsts or strangr or durty furz or sicks, an 
says, "NO CAN HAS help yu?""he will says, srsly, 
whatevr yu did not do for even lamer kittehs, yu 
did not do fur me."den they will go be wet with 
basement cat, but teh riteshus will be dry wif 
ceiling cat." 

And den, when Happy Cat has finished all these 
sayings, he sez to his BFz,Guess what? dayz from 
now iz feast, and Ceiling Cat jr. is gona get 
pwned. 

Then big cat pile, wit writers n old folks, in teh 
palace of teh big cat, whoz called Cataphas,And 
skeemed that thay can take Happy Cat sneeky, and 
pwn himBut thay sez, "Not on teh feast day, cuz 
peeps would freek." 

So Happy Cat was outside in Bethany, inside the 
house of Simon the lepr,Woman popped up wif can of 
tuna, and poured oilz on his head, as he sitted at 
cheezburger.But when his bfz sees it, thays angry, 
saying, Y to waste?Dis oilz might have been sold 
for much, and give to other kittehz wif no 
cheezburgerz. 

Happy Cat thinkz n sez, Y Yu freekn? she knows I 
like oilz.Always kittehz wif no cheezburgers; but 
I go bai, k?Thatz Y she pour on the tuna oilz, 
bury mee.I sez U, wen teh bibul iz told, it wil 
say wut shes dun me. Shez cool. U suck. 

Then one of the BFz, called Judas Iscarycat, went 
teh big catz,And sez, I can haz cheezburger, Happy 
Cat? And thay give him teh cheezburger.And now hez 
lookin pwn Happy Cat. 

So teh first day of the feast of da flat cookie 
the BFz came to Happy Cat n sez, Where eat feast? 

And he sez, scratch on window and weez in. 

And teh BFz did as Happy Cat sez; and thay made 
redy teh passover. 

So dark out, he sitted wif the BFz. 

And as thay eated, he sez, Guess what? of youz 
gonna pwn mee. 

And thay were sad, and all sez, Not mee. wtf? 

And he answered and sez, He that lick teh bowl wif 
me teh same gonna pwn me.Ize gotta do wha Ize 
gotta do: busted B kitteh who pwns teh Ceilng Cat 
jr.! better no B borned. 

Then Judas, which pwned him, answered and sez, 
scuz plz, is it I? He sez, No Da. 

They was eatings, and Happy Cat took cheezburgrs 
and give them to his peepz and sez, "Is my body. 
It has a flavor. U can has it and go NOM NOM 
NOM."And he took teh cup, sez thks plz, and gives 
dem, sez, Drink all of it;Dis my blood k?, Soz U 
can say srry when U bad kittehz.Now I has no milk 
wif u, till wez all in the ceiling. K?Invisible 
karaoke over, they went outside play. 

Den Happy Cat sez, Ize has to go bai, and u gonna 
B like, Wtf? For it sez: "I pwn teh master, n teh 
peepz will run leik sissyz." 

Then, I‘m in your Galilee, back from teh dead. 

Peter sez, No wai. 

Happy Cat sez, btw, Guess what? Today bteh chikun 
sez kok-ah-doodull-due u gonna say u no know mee 
times. 

Peter sez, No way. BFz will say wtf? 

Happy Cat sez, Oh ya? Iz settn yu up. Come wif 
them to Geffsemanee, and tell dem that, Stay, 
while I go n play.And he took wif him Peter and 
Zebedee’s kidz, and wus sad. 

He sez, Ize sad. Stay wif mee. 

And he went a little farther, and failed, and sez, 
O my daddy, I no want dies! I can no die? 

His Bfz, all has pillows asleep, n sez Peter, 
Wtf?, No could stay with me hour?U suck: teh 
spirit sez yes, but teh flesh sez no. 

time, sez, O daddy, u want mee dead? k.Bfz still 
has pillows. No look. 

Third time, sez same:Then he sez to BFz, Fine 
sleep. I get pwnd now.K. Get up. I get pwnd now. 

While he sez dat, Judas, shows up wif army of big 
cats and old peeps. 

Pwner sez I kiss guy u want. Dats how u know.He 
came to Happy Cat, and sez, Sup? and kissed him. 

Happy Cat sez, where u been? And it was bath 
time.And Happy Catz BF cut off guys ear! 

Happy Cat sez, Bad kitteh. If u use claws u die by 
claws.Funny irony. If I could ask, Ceiling Cat sez 
I can has army. LoLBut can’t cuz no spose ? 

Happy Cat sez to big cats, Wtf? Why now?BFz raned 
away. 

They took to Catafas teh big preest at the cat 
pile.Peter sneeked up behind them see what’s up. 

Now thay all make up lies against Happy Cat, pwn 
him;Wasn’t working cuz Happy Cat good kitteh. 
Then more liars came,Dis guy sez he can wrek 
temple and put it back in days. 

Big cat sez, Oh yeah?Happy Cat sez nothing. Big 
cat sez, tell us if UR Ceiling Cat jr. 

Happy Cat sez, fraid so. UR going to see Ceiling 
Car Jr. poking his head out from hole in ceiling. 

Then Big cat shaved him.They all sez he needs B 
pwned. 

Then spitted on him and spanked himThey sez, if U 
Ceiling Cat jr. wez couldn’t do dis. 

Girl sez to Peter, U were wif Happy Cat frm 
Galily. 

Peter sez, 'fraid not.' 

He goes out to the porch, another maid sees him, 
and sez, 'U were wif Jebuz!' 

And again, 'Mee not know him.' 

They all sez to Peter, 'u gotsta be wun of dem!' 

'Wtf? No way!'And Peter membered teh word of Happy 
Cat, which sez, 'Today you not know me times wen 
de chikun speeks.' He wuz sad n cry. 

So liek iz teh mornins and all teh ppl sez tehy 
duznt liek Jesus and wantz to kills him;So tehy 
ties him upp and maed him goes to Pilate. 

Judas feels teh stoopid and bringes teh moniez 
back,becuz he iz liek, "I iz stoopid, made 
invisibul errr. Jesus iz innucent, k?" 

So Judas sez "Do not want!" and he trows teh 
moniez and then killz hisself wiht sum yarn. 

And teh top cat priestz taik moniez and sez "Do 
not want, has blud on, yuk".And they arsks sumbody 
and sez "I can has pooterz feild?" for to bury teh 
stranger doodz what are deaded in.And somefot it 
gud idea to call field "field of blud". Der.And 
den, wut Jeremiah, dood who kno what happen before 
it happen, like humin who kno cheesburgr teim 
before lolcat do, said wood happen did happen, and 
dey took lots peices silver, what he worth and can 
has lots of cheezburgrs wiv and what children wot 
pull lolcat tail of Israel did reckon him 
worth;and gived them for pooterz feild as Ceiling 
Cat sayed for to do.[a] 

An Jebus stood in front of governor, what is like 
owner that has the thing for opening catfud tins, 
and governer said "Is you der big boss cat of der 
Jews?" And Jebus say "Dat wot u say" *shrug* 

An when teh big top cat priestz and old doods did 
say, like, that he pinched the fish, he look all 
innocent and smooth his whiskers and say 
nuffin.Den Pilate sayed to hims "Yu not heer wut 
dey saying aboot yu?"But stil Jebus not say nuffin 
and amaezd teh govurnor. Srsly.And the govurnor 
had teh custom of releesing prizunor teh crowd 
wantid.There wuz teh evul guy naemd 
Barabbas[b],And den wen teh crowd wuz gatherd 
Pilate were asked dem "Yu can haz Barabbas or 
Jebus."But he knowz it wuz cuz dey wur jelus of 
teh Jebus dat dey gaev Jebus to hims. Srsly. 

An when Pilate was sitting in teh uber-litter box 
of teh juj, his wiefs, liek, sended he dis mesij. 
An she sez liek "Yu no can haz aneeting too does 
wif dat cat whu iz free of teh kittunz, srsly, cuz 
liek i can haz bad nightkitties bout himz, An yah. 
Srsly." 

But teh big top cat priestz and ol doodz gived teh 
crowdz lots of catnips so dey wud asks for teh 
Barabbas and to hav Jebus exicutid. Srsly. 

So den teh govurnor askd teh crowd "Wich wun duz 
yuz want?" Dey sed "Barabbas!" 

"Wut I do wif Jebus den?" Pilate askd. Den all teh 
crowd sed "Krucify himz!!", srsly 

"wai? wut invizibul errr he do?" Pilate askd, But 
teh krowd get loudr and keep saying "Krucify 
himz!!" 

Pilate getz teh frustraet and teh krowd waz maek 
uproarz, so he washiz hiz handz and sez, "Do not 
want, I innusint uf himz blud, yuk." 

Teh krowd sez, "hims blud!! do want!! Feed to our 
kittehs. Srsly." 

Him releesd Barabbas to angry krowdz, but took 
awai Jebus'z powerups's, giv himz floggingz and 
giv himz to krowd. Srsly. 

Teh govrnur's faitur kittiez taekd Jebuz to teh 
big littur box and roundid up moar faiter 
kitties.Dey took moar of Jebus'z cheezburgrzand 
put teh lime helmetz on himz hed. Den dey giv him 
big stik and maek fun of himz, sed "King of 
Kittehz! Haz many cheezburgrz, us can haz?".Den 
dey spitz hairbalz at himz and giv him beetdownz 
wif teh big stik.wen dey finish wif teh beetdownz 
dey taek teh lime helmetz off and taek himz to teh 
krucify place. Srsly. 

Den wen dey goez out to teh krucify plaec, teh 
faitur kittez maed teh dood naemd Simon karry teh 
cross. Srsly.Den dey go to teh plaec kalld Teh 
Landz of teh Skullz.At teh skullz plaec, dey gib 
Jebuz sum yuky winez but he tastid it an sed "do 
not want, can haz livur juus, yuk." Srsly.When 
they had crucifid him, they dividd up his clothez 
by castin lawts.an sittin down, they kept watch 
ovar him thar.aboov his head they placd teh 
written charge against him: dis ar teh jebus, teh 
king ov teh jews.rebels wuz crucifid wif him, wan 
on his rite an wan on his left.dose hoo pasd by 
hurld insults at him, shakin their headzan sayin, 
"u hoo r goin destroy teh temple an build it in 
dais, save yourself! Come down frum teh cros, if u 
r teh son ov ceilin cat!"in da same wai teh chief 
priests, teh teachers ov teh law an teh elders 
mockd him."he savd others," they sed, "but he cant 
save him! Hez teh king ov israel! Let him come 
down nao frum teh cros, an we will bleev in him.he 
trusts in ceilin cat. Let ceilin cat rescue him 
nao if he wants him, he sed, i r son ov ceilin 
cat. "in da same wai teh rebels hoo wuz crucifid 
wif him also heapd insults on him. 

frum noon til in da afternoon darknes came ovar 
all teh land.bout in da afternoon jebus crid out 
in loud voice, "eli, eli, [c] lema sabachthani?" 
(which meanz "mah ceilin cat, mah ceilin cat, 
HALP!"). [d]when sum ov dose standin thar herd 
dis, they sed, "hez callin Elikhat."immediately 
wan ov them ran an got sponge. He filld it wif 
wine vinegar, put it on staff, an offerd it jebus 
drink.teh rest sed, "nao leef him alone. Lets c if 
Elikhat comez save him."an when jesus had crid out 
again in loud voice, he gave up his spirit.at dat 
moment teh curtain ov teh temple wuz torn in frum 
top bottom. Teh earth shook, teh rockz splitan teh 
tombs broke open. Teh bodiez ov lotz da holy peeps 
hoo had did wuz raisd life!they came out ov teh 
tombs aftr jebus resurrecshun an [e] went into teh 
holy city an appeard lotz da peeps.when teh 
senturion an dose wif him hoo wuz guardin jebus 
saw teh earthquaek an all dat had happend, they 
wuz terrifid, an exclaimd, "surely he wuz teh son 
ov ceilin cat!"lotz da women wuz thar, watchin 
frum distance. They had followd jebus frum galilee 
care his needz.among them wuz mary magdalene, mary 
teh mommy ov jamez an josef, [f] an teh mommy ov 
zebedeez sons. 

as evenin approachd, thar came rich man frum 
arimathea, namd josef, hoo had him become disciple 
ov jesus.goin pilate, he askd jebus body, an 
pilate orderd dat it be given him.josef took teh 
body, wrappd it in clean linen cloth,an placd it 
in his own new tomb dat he had cut out ov teh 
rawk. He rolld hooj stone in frunt ov teh entrance 
teh tomb an went away.mary magdalene an teh othr 
mary wuz sittin thar opposiet teh tomb. 

teh next dai, teh wan aftr preparashun dai, teh 
chief priests an teh fariseez went pilate."sir," 
they sed, "we remembr dat while he wuz still aliv 
dat deceivr sed, aftr dais im gonna rize again.so 
giv teh ordr da tomb be made secure til teh third 
dai. Otherwize, his disciplez cud come an steel 
teh body an tell teh peeps dat he has been raisd 
frum teh ded. Dis last decepshun will be worse 
than teh furst.""taek guard," pilate anzwerd. "go, 
mak teh tomb as secure as u knoe how." so they 
went an made teh tomb secure by puttin seal on teh 
stone an postin teh guard. 

Aftr teh Sunty Dae, whin Sunty come up on teh 
furst dae ov teh week, Maerdy Magdaleem an teh 
othr Maerdy (srsly) chix went look at teh 
grabe.Then it wuz a violent Shaker! a Hover Dd ov 
Ceiling Cat came down frum Heaven an, go teh 
grabe, rold bak teh Rok, an sat on it.His 
appearance wuz liek lightnin, an his clovings wuz 
wite as snowy.Teh Action Cat guardz wuz so scary 
to him dat they shook an became liek ded ddz, 
lol.Hover Dd sed teh chix, "Not is be scary. I 
knoe dat u r lookin Happy Cat, hoo wuz hung up on 
kross wif arn thorns.Not is here! He got up, 
scaped, liek he sed. Come an c teh place wer he 
layd, srsly.Den go quickly an tell his kitlins: he 
has got up frum ded an iz goin ahead ov u into 
galilee. Thar u will c him. Nao i has told u, 
kthxbai."So teh chix hurry away frum teh grabe, 
scary yet filld wif Happy, an ran tell his 
kitlins.Suddenly Happy Cat met them! "Ohai!" he 
sed. They came him, huggd his feet an worshipd 
him.Den Happy Cat sed them, "Do not be scary. Go 
an tell mah kitlins go galilee; thar they will c 
me." 

While teh chix wuz on their wai, sum ov teh Action 
Cat guardz went into teh city an reportd teh Law 
Cats evrythin dat had happend.When teh Law Cats 
had met wif teh Top Cats an devisd plan, they gaev 
teh Action Catz many ov moneys,tellin them, "u r 
say, his kitlins came durin teh nite an stold him 
away while we wuz sleepin.If dis report gets teh 
Boss Kitty, we will satisfy him an keep u out ov 
trouble."So teh Action Cats took teh moneys an 
did. An dis story has been widely circulatd among 
teh Jewcats dis vry dai. 

Den teh eleven kitlins went galilee, teh mounting 
wer Happy Cat had told them go.When they saw him, 
they worshipd him; but sum said NO WAI.Dn Happy 
Cat came them an sed, "WAI. Ceiling Cat sez I pwnz 
Heaven and Urfs OK.So go an get kitlins ov all 
colors uv cat, bath them with tung in [a] teh naym 
ov teh Ceiling Cat an ov Happy Cat an ov Hver 
Cat,an teach them do what i telld u. An srsly im 
wif u always, at every of Tiem, kthxbai." 

