Sithe it is manifestlye knowen, that this boke of 
Albertus Magnus is in the Jtalian, Spanish, 
Frenche and Duche tongs, it was thought if it were 
translated into the English tounge, it woulde bee 
receyved wyth lyke good wyl and friendship, as it 
is in those partes. Wherefore use thou this booke 
to mitigate and alacrate thy heavy and troublesome 
mynde, as thou hast bene wont to do with the booke 
commonlye called the booke of Fortune. For beleve 
me, whatsoever is promised in either of them both, 
this or that is alonly to the ende. 

__________ 

The first booke of the vertues of certayne Herbes. 

Aristole the Prince of Philosophers saieth in many 
places, that every science is of the kinde of good 
thinges. But not withstandyng the operation 
sometime is good sometime evyll, as the science is 
channged to a good, or to an evil ende, to which 
it worketh. Of the whych saying two things be 
concluded: the one and the fyrst is, that the 
science of Magike is not evil, for by the 
knowledge of it evil way may be eschued and good 
folowed. The second thing is also concluded for as 
muche as the effect is praised for the end, and 
also the end of science is dispraysed, when it is 
not ordayned to good or bad vertue. Jt followeth 
then that every science or operation is sometime 
good, somtyms evyll. Therefore because the science 
of Magike is a good knowledge (as it is 
presupposed) and is somewhat evyll in beholdyng of 
causes and natural things, as I have considered 
and perceived in auncient authors, yea and I my 
selfe Albert have founde the truoth in many 
thinges, and I suppose the truth te bee in some 
part of the booke of Chirander, and of the booke 
of Alchorac. 

First therefore I will declare of certaine herbes: 
Secondly of certaine Stones, and thirdly of 
certayne Beastes, and the vertues of them. 

__________ 

Elitropia Marygolde. 

Urtica Nettle. 

Virga pastoris Wylde tasyl. 

Celidonia Celendine. 

Provinca Perwynke. 

Nepeta Calamint or peniroial. 

Lingue canis Houndes tong 

Jusquianus Henbane. 

Lilium Lylye. 

Viscus querci Misseltoe. 

Centaurea Centorie. 

Salvia Sage. 

Verbena Vervin. 

Melysophylos Smallage. 

Rosa Rose. 

Serpentina Snakes grasse. 

__________ 

The first herbe is called with the men of Chaldea 
Elios, wyth the Grekes Matutriol, wyth the Latines 
Elitropium, with Englyshe men Marygolde, whose 
interpretation is at Elion, that is the Sunne, and 
Tropos, that is alteration of change, because it 
is turne according to the sun. The vertue of thys 
herbe is marvelous, for if it be gathered, the 
Sunne beyng in the sygne Leo, in August, and be 
wrapped in the leafe of a Laurell or bay tree, and 
a wolves tooth be added therto, no man shall bee 
able to have a woord to speake agaynst the bracer 
thereof, but wordes of peace. And if any thyng be 
stollen, if the bearer of the thynges before named 
lay them under hys head in the nyght, hee shall 
see the theefe and al his conditions. And 
moreover, if the foresayd herbe be put in any 
Church where women be whych have broken Matrimony 
on theyr part, they shall never be able to go 
foorth of the Churche, except it be put away. And 
this last poyat hath bene proved, and is very 
true. 

__________ 

The first herbe is called with the men of Chaldea 
Elios, wyth the Grekes Matutriol, wyth the Latines 
Elitropium, with Englyshe men Marygolde, whose 
interpretation is at Elion, that is the Sunne, and 
Tropos, that is alteration of change, because it 
is turne according to the sun. The vertue of thys 
herbe is marvelous, for if it be gathered, the 
Sunne beyng in the sygne Leo, in August, and be 
wrapped in the leafe of a Laurell or bay tree, and 
a wolves tooth be added therto, no man shall bee 
able to have a woord to speake agaynst the bracer 
thereof, but wordes of peace. And if any thyng be 
stollen, if the bearer of the thynges before named 
lay them under hys head in the nyght, hee shall 
see the theefe and al his conditions. And 
moreover, if the foresayd herbe be put in any 
Church where women be whych have broken Matrimony 
on theyr part, they shall never be able to go 
foorth of the Churche, except it be put away. And 
this last poyat hath bene proved, and is very 
true. 

__________ 

The second herbe is called of the men of Chaldea 
Raybra, of the Greekes Qiseribus of the latines of 
Frenche men Urtica, of English men a Nettle. He 
that holoeth this herbe in hys hande with an herbe 
called Mylfoyle or Yarowe, or Nosebleede, is sure 
from alle feare and fantasy, or vision. And if it 
bee put wyth the iuyce of Houselyke, and the 
bearers hande be anoynted wyth it, and the residue 
bee put in water, if he enter in the water where 
fishes be, they wil gather together to his handes, 
and also ad piscellum. And if his hands be drawen 
foorth, they wyll leape agayne to theyr owne 
places where they were before. 

__________ 

The thyrd herbe is named of the Chaldies 
Lorumboror, of the Grekes Allomor of the Latines 
Virga pastoris, of Englishe men, Wylde tasyl. Take 
this herbe and temper it with the iuyce of 
Mandrake, and geve it to a bitche or to another 
beast, and it shal be great with a yong one in the 
one kinde, and shall bryng foorthe the byrth in 
the owne kynde, of the whyche yong one if the goom 
tooth be taken and dipped in meate or drink, every 
one that shall drinke therof shal begin anon 
battel, and when thou wouldest put it awaye, geve 
to him the iuyce of Velarian, and peace shall be 
anon amonge them as before. 

__________ 

The fourth herbe named Aquilaris of the Chaldies, 
because it springeth in the tyme in which the 
Eagles buylde their nests. It is named of the 
Grekes Valfs, of the Latines Celidonia, of English 
men Celendine. Thys herbe springeth in the time in 
which the Swallowes and also the Eagles make their 
nestes. If any man shal have this herbe wyth the 
hart of a Mole, he shal overcome al his enemyes, 
and al matters in fute, and shal put away al 
debate. And if the before named herbe be put uppon 
the heade of a sycke man, if he shoulde dye, hee 
shall syng anon wyth a loud voyce, if not, hee 
shall weepe. 

__________ 

The fyfte herbe is named of the Chaldies Iterisi, 
of the Greekes Vorax, of the Latines Proventalis 
or Provinsa, of Englysh men Perwynke, when it is 
beaten unto pouder wyth woormes of the earth, 
wrapped aboute it, and wyth an herbe called 
Semperviva in English Houselyke, it induceth love 
betwene man and wyfe, if it be used in their 
meats. And if it shalbe put to the mouth of the 
beast called the Bugyll, hee shal breake anone in 
the middest, and this was proved of late time. If 
the sayde confection be put in the fyre, it shalbe 
turned anon unto blue colour. 

__________ 

The syxte herbe is named of the Chaldies Bicith, 
of the Grekes Retus, of the Latines Nepeta, of 
English men Calamyne, otherwyse Peniroyal. Take 
this herbe and myxe it wyth the stone founde in 
the nest of the byrd called a Lapwyng, or blacke 
Polver, and rub the belly of any beast and it 
shall be with byrth, and it shall have a young one 
very blacke in the own kinde. And if it be put to 
theyr nosethrylles, they shall fall to the grounde 
anon as dead, but a lytle space after they shalbe 
healed. Also if the foresayde confection be put in 
a vessel of Bees, the Bees wyll never flee awaye, 
but they shall gather together there. And if the 
Bees be drowned and lyke as the were dead, if they 
be put in the foresayd confection, they shall 
recover theyr lyfe after a lyttle tyme, as by the 
space of one houre, for it is proporcioned to the 
quality lost. And for a sure profe, if drowned 
flyes bee put in warme asshes, they wyll recover 
their lyfe after a lyttle space. 

__________ 

The seventh herbe is named of the Chaldies Aigeil, 
of the grekes Orum, of the Latins lingua Canis, of 
the Englishe men Houndes tounge, put thou this 
herbe with the hart of a young frog, and her 
matrice, and put them wher thou wilt, and after a 
litle time all the dogs of the whole towne shall 
be gathered together. And if thou shalt have the 
afore named herbe under thy formost toe, al the 
dogs shall keepe scilence, and shall not have 
power to barck. And if thou shalt put the 
aforesayde thyng in the necke of anye dog, so that 
hee may not touch it with his mouth, he shall be 
turned alwaye rounde about lyke a turnyng wheele, 
untyll hee fall unto the grounde as dead, and this 
hath beene proved in our tyme. 

__________ 

The eight herbe is named of the Chaldies Mausesa, 
of the grekes Ventosin, of the Latins Jus- 
quianus, of Englishe men Henbane. Take thou this 
herbe and mixe it with Realgalis and Hermodatalis, 
and put them in the meate of a mad dog, and hee 
wyll dye anon. And if thou shalt put the iuyce of 
it wyth the foresayde thinges in a sylver cup, it 
shall be broken verye small. And if thou shalt 
mixe the aforesayde thynge with the bloud of a 
young Hare, and keepe it in the skin of a Hare, 
all the Hares wyll bee gathered there, until it be 
removed. 

__________ 

The ninth herbe is named of the Chaldies Ango, of 
the Greekes Amala, of the Latines Lilium, of the 
English men a Lily. If thou wylt gather thys herbe 
the sunne being in the signe of the Lion, *wylt 
myxe it with the iuyce of the Laurelll or baye 
tree, and afterwarde thou shall put that iuyce 
under the dung of Cattell a certayne tyme, it 
shall bee turned into wormes, of the which if you 
der bee made, and bee put to the neck of any man 
or in his clothes, he shall never sleepe, nor 
shall not be able to sleepe untill it be put 
awaye. And if thou shalt put the foresayd thyng 
under the dung of cattell, and wilt anoynt any man 
with the wormes breeding therof, he shall be 
brought anon unto a fever. And if the foresayd 
thyng be put in any vessel where there is Cowes 
mylke, and be covered wyth the skyn of any Cow of 
one colour, all the Kyue shall loose their mylke. 

__________ 

The tenth Herbe is called of the Chaldies Luperar, 
of the Greekes Assifena, of the Latines Viscus 
querci, of Englishe men Mysseltoe. And it groweth 
in trees beyng holad through. This herbe wyth a 
certayn other herbe which is named Martegon, that 
is Silphion or Laserpitium as it is wrytten in the 
Almaynes language, it openeth all lockes. And if 
the aforesayd thynges beyng put together, bee put 
in the mouthe of any man, if he thynke of any 
thing, if it should happen, it is set on hys hart, 
if not, it leapeth backe from his hart. If the 
aforesayd thyng be hanged up to a tree wyth the 
wing of a Swallow, there the byrdes shall be 
gathered together wythin the space of five myles. 
And this last was proved in my tyme. 

__________ 

The elevent herbe is named of the Chaldies 
Isiphilon, of the Grekes Orgelon, of the Latines 
Centaures, of the English men Centory, which sayth 
that thys herbe hath a marveilous vertue, for if 
it be ioyned with the bloude of a female Lapwing, 
or blacke Plover, and bee putte wyth oyle in a 
lampe, all they that compasse it about, shall 
beleve them selves tot bee witches, so that one 
shall beleve of another that his head is in 
heaven, and hys feete in earth. And if the 
aforesayd thing be put in the fire when the 
starres shine, it shall appeare that the stars run 
one agaynste another and fyght. And if the 
foresaid plaister be put to the nosethryls of any 
man, hee shall flee away sharpely, through feare 
that he shall have, and thys hath bene proved. 

__________ 

The twelfte Herbe is named of the Chaldeis 
Colorio, or Coloricon, of the Grekes Clamor, of 
the Latines commonlye Salvia, of Englysh men Sage. 
Thys herbe beyng puttifyed under dunge of cattell, 
in a glasyn vessel, bryngeth foorth a certayne 
worme or byrd, having a taile after the fashion of 
a byrde, called a blacke mocke or a wsyll. And 
whose blood, if any man be touched on the brest, 
he shall lose his sence of feelyng the space of xv 
dayes and more. And if the foresayde Serpent be 
burned, *the ashes of it put in the fyre, anone 
shall there be a rayne bowe, with an horrible 
thunder. And if the aforesayd asshes, be put in a 
lampe, and be kindled, it shall appeare that all 
the house is full of serpents, *this hat ben 
proved of men of late tyme. 

__________ 

The xiii herbe is named of the Chaldeis Olphanas, 
of the Greekes Hiliorion, of the Latins Verbena, 
of the English men Vervin. This herbe (as witches 
say) gathered, the sunne being in the signe of the 
Ram, and put wyth grayne or corne of Pionye of one 
yere old, healeth them that be sick of the falling 
sicknes. And if it be put in a fat grounde, after 
eyght wekes wormes shalbe engendred, which if they 
shall touch any man, he shal dye anon. And if the 
aforesayd thyng be put in a Dovehouse or a culver 
house, all the Doves of Culvers shalbe gathered 
together there. And if the pouder of them be put 
in the sunne, is shall appeare that the Sunne is 
blue. If the pouder be put in a place where men 
dwel or lye betweene [ 19] two lovers, anon there 
is made strife or malice betwene them. 

__________ 

The xiiii herbe is named of the Chaldeies Celayos, 
of the Greekes Casini, of the Latines 
Melisopholos, of Englische men Smalage, of the 
wich herbe meister Floridus maketh menction. This 
herbe gathered grene, taken with the iuyce of the 
Cipresse tree of one yere, put in gruell, maketh 
the gruell to appeare full of wormes, maketh the 
bearer to be gentle and gracious, to vanguish his 
adversaries. And if the aforesaid herbe be bounden 
to an Oxe neck, he wil folow thee whether soever 
thou wilt go. 

__________ 

The xv herbe is named of the Chaldeis Glerisa, of 
the Greekes Isaphinus, of the Latines Rosa, of 
english men a Rose. And it is an herbe, whose 
floure is very well knowen. Take the grain or 
corne of it, the corne of Musterd seede and the 
foote of a Wesell, hange up these in a tree, and 
it wyll not beare fruit after. And if the 
aforesayde thinge be put about a nette, fysshes 
wyll gather together there. And if Magaris shall 
be dead, * be put in the aforesayde commixtion 
halfe a daye, it shall recouver the lyfe, 
althoughe it be not forth with yet gotten. 

And if the aforesayde poulder be put in a lampe, 
and after be kindled, all men shall appeare blacke 
as the devell. And if the aforesaid poulder be 
mixed wilt oyle of the Olyve tree, with quycke 
brymstone, *the hause anointed wyth it, the Sunne 
shyning, it shall appeare all inflamed. __________ 

The xvi herbe is called of the Chaldeis Caturlen, 
of the Grekes Pentaphyllon, of the Latynes 
Serpenthia, in English snakes grasse. Thys herbe 
is well ynough knowen wit us. Thys herbe put in 
the grounde, wyth the leafe of the thre leafed 
grase engendreth read, *grene serpentes, of which 
if poulder be made. And put in a burnynge lampe, 
there shal appeare aboundaunce of serpentes. And 
if it be put under the head of ani man, fast 
thence forth he shall not dreame of him selfe. 

__________ 

The maner of workig al these aforenamed thinges, 
that the effect may be good in their planets is, 
in their houres, and dayes. 

There be seven herbes that have great vertues, 
after the minde of Alexander the Emperour, and 
they have these vertues of the influence of the 
planets. And therefore every one of them taketh 
their vertue from the higher natural power. 

__________ 

The firste is the herbe of the planet Saturnus, 
whych is called Affodillus, Affodiliy, the iuice 
of it is good agaynst the payne of the raynes and 
legges. Let them that suffer payne of the bladder, 
eate it. The roote of it being a litle boyled. And 
men possessed wyth evyll spirites, or mad men 
beare it in a cleane napkyn, they shal be 
delyvered from their disease. And it suffreth not 
a divil in the house. And if Children that breede 
their teeth, beare it aboute them, they shall 
breede them without paine. And it is good that a 
man beare with him a rote of it in the night, for 
he shall not feare, nor be hurt of other. 

__________ 

The second is the herb of the Sunne, which is 
called Poligonia, or Coraligiola. Thys herbe 
taketh hys name of the Sunne, for it engendreth 
greatlye, and so this herbe worketh many waies. 
Other hath called this herbe Althone, whych is the 
house of the Sunne. This herbe healeth the 
passions and griefe of the harte and the stomacke. 

Het that toucheth thys herbe hath a vertue of hys 
sygne or planet. If any man drynke the iuyce of 
it, it maketh hym to doe often the act of 
generation. And if any man beare the roote of it, 
it healeth the griefe of the eyes. And yf hee 
beare it wyth him before he have any griefe, there 
shall come to hym no grief of his eyes. 

It helpeth also theym that that be vexed with the 
phrenesye, if they beare it with them in theyr 
brest. 

It helpeth also them that are diseased with an 
impostume in the lunges, maketh them to have a 
good breath,* it availeth also to the flyxe of 
melancolous blood. 

__________ 

The thirde is the herbe of the Moone, which is 
called Chynostates. The iuyce of it purgeth the 
paines of the stomacke, * brest plates, the vertue 
of it declareth that it is the herbe of the Moone. 
The floure of this herbe purgeth great splenes and 
healeth them, because this herbe encreaseth * and 
decreaseth as the Moone. It is good agaynst the 
sycknes of the eyes, maketh a sharp sight. And it 
is good agaynsth the bloude of thy eyes. If thou 
put the roote of it brayed upon the eye, it will 
make the eye marvelous clere, because the lighte 
of the eyes Propinquatum mistion, is of the 
substance of the Moone. It is also good to them 
that have an evill stomake or which can not 
disgeste theyr meate, by drinking the iuyce of it, 
moreover it is good tot hem that have the swyne 
pockes. 

__________ 

The fourthe hearbe is called Arnoglossa, plantyne. 
The roote of this herbe is marvalous good agaynst 
the payne of the heade, because the signe of the 
Ramins is supposed to be the house of the planet 
Mars, which is the head of the whole worlde. It is 
good also against evil customs of mans stones and 
rotten, * filthy byles, because his house is the 
signe scorpio, because a part of it holdeth 
Sparma, that is the seede which commeth against 
the stones whereof al living things bee engendred 
and fourmed. Also the iuyce of it is good tot hem 
that be sick of the perilous flixe, with 
excoriation raysing of the bowels, continuall 
torments, ans some bloud issuing forth. It purgeth 
them that drink it, from the sicknesses of the 
flyxe of bloud, or emerauds, and of the disease of 
the stomacke. 

__________ 

The fyft is the herbe of the planet Mercurius, 
which is named Pentaphilion, in Englyshe 
cinquefoyle, or the v leafed herb, of others 
Pentadactvilus, of others Sepedeclinans, of 
certaine Camipedolo. The roote of thys herbe 
brayed and made in a plaister, healeth woundes and 
hardnes. Moreover, it putteth away quickly the 
swyne pockes, if the iuyce of it bee dronken wyth 
water. It healeth also the passions en griefes of 
the brest, if the iuyce of it be dronken. It 
putteth away also the toothache, and if the iuyce 
of it be holden in the mouth, it healeth alle the 
griefes of the mouth. And if ani man beare it with 
him it geveth wark, *help. Moreover if any man wyl 
aske any thyng of a king or prince, it geveth 
aboundaunce eloquence, if he have it with him, and 
he shal obtaineth that he desireth. It is also 
good to have the iuyce of it, for the griefe of 
the stone and the syckenes which letteth a man to 
pysse. 

__________ 

The vi is the hearbe of the planet Jupiter, *it is 
named Acharon, of certayne Jusquianus, Henbane. 
The roote of it, put upon botches, healeth them, 
and kepeth the place from an inflamation of 
bloude. If any man shall beare it before the grefe 
come upon him he shall never have a botche. 

The roote of it lso is a profitable agaynst the 
goute in the feete whan it is brayed, and upon the 
the place hat suffereth the payne or grief. And it 
worketh by vertue of those signes, which have 
fete, and loke upon the feete. And if the iuyce of 
it be dronken with hony or with wyne and hony 
sodden together, it is profitable against the 
griefes of the liver, and all hys passions, 
because Jupiter holdeth the lyver, 

Likewise it is profitable to them that woulde do 
often the acte of generation, and them that desire 
to be loved of women, it is good that they beare 
it with them, for it maketh the bearer pleasaunt 
and delectable. 

__________ 

The viii ist the herbe of the Planet Urnus,* is 
called Pisterion of some Hierobotane, id est, 
Herbo columbaria, *verbena, Vervin. 

The roote of this Hearbe put upon the necke, 
healeth the swine pockes, apostumes behynde the 
eares, and botches of the necke, and suche as can 
not keepe theyr water. 

It healeth also cuttes, *swelling of the evill, or 
foundament, proredyng of an inflamation, which 
groweth in the foundament, and the Emauraudes. If 
the iuyce of (it) (missen van blad(en) 

day of the Moone, untyl the xxx day, begynnyng the 
gatheryng of them from the sygne Mercurius, by the 
space of a whole hour, and in gathering make 
mention of the passion or griefe, and the name of 
the thing for which thou doest gathered it, and 
the selfe herbe, notwithstanding lay the herb up 
in wheate or barley, and use it afterward to thy 
neede. 

__________ 

Here begynnetht the second booke of the vertues of 
certayne stones. 

Nowe because I have spoken before of the vertues 
of certaine herbes, now in this present chapter I 
wil speake of certayne stones, their effects * 
marvaylous operations. 

__________ 

Magnes the lode stone. 

Ophtualmus * Onyx. 

Feripendamus Sylonites. 

Topazion Medozza. 

Memphitis lapis iurra memphim urbem in Egipto. 

Abaston Adamas diamond. 

Agathes Alectoria. 

Esmundus Amaristus. 

Berillus Celonites. 

Corallus Christallus. 

Elotropia Epistrites. 

Calcedonius Celidonius. 

Bagates Bena. 

Istinos Tabrices. 

Chrysolitus Gerattides. 

Aicilomal Quirini. 

Radianus Luperius. 

Unces Lazuli. 

Smaragdus Iris. 

Gallacia Galerites. 

Draconites Echites. 

Tepristites Hiacinthus. 

Orithes Saphirus. 

Saunus. 

__________ 

If thou wilt know whether thy wyfe be chaste, or 
no. Take the stone whych is called Magnes, in 
Englishe the Lode stone, it is of sad blew colour 
and it is found in the sea of Inde, somtime in 
partes of Almayne in the province whyche is called 
Easte Fraunce. Laye thys stone under the head of a 
wyfe, and if shee bee chaste, she wyll embrace her 
husband, if she be not chaste, she wyll fall anon 
forth of the bed. 

Moreover if thys stone be put brayed and scattered 
upon coles, in four corners of the house, they 
that be sleping shal flee the house and leave all. 

__________ 

If thou wilt be made invisible.[ 33] Take the 
stone whych is called Ophethalmius, and wrappe it 
in the leafe of the Laurell or Baye tree, and it 
is called Lapis obtelmicus, whose coloure is not 
named, for it is of mani colours, and it is of 
suche vertue, that it blyndeth the sightes of them 
that stand aboute. Constantius carying thys in hys 
hande, was made invisible by it. 

__________ 

If thou wylt provoke sorrow, feare, terrible 
fantasies and debate. Take the stone which is 
called Onyx, whych is of blacke colour. And that 
kynde is best whyche is ful of whyte vaines. And 
it commeth from Inde unto Arabi, and if it be 
hanged uppon the necke or finger, it stirreth by 
anon sorrow and heavinesse in a man, and ter- 
rours, and also debate, and thys hath bene proved 
by men of late tyme. 

__________ 

If thou wilt burne any mans hands without fyre. 
Take the stone which is called Feripendamus, 
whiche is all yeluw colour, which if it be hanged 
upon the neck of any man, it healeth Areticum, 
*also if thys stone be gryved straightly, it 
burneth the hande anone, and therefore it must be 
touched lightle and gently. 

__________ 

If thou wylt kindle the minde of any man to ioyes, 
*make hys wyt sharpe. 

Take the stone which is called Sylonites, it 
groweth in the bosome of a Snayle of Indye, called 
Corcuses, and there is of dyvers kyndes of it, of 
whyte, read, and other coloure. Other saye, that 
it is greene and found in the partes of Persia. 
And also olde Philosophers saye, if it be tasted, 
it geveth knowledge of certayne thynges to come. 
If it be put under the tounge, speciallye in the 
first Moone, it hath a vertue onelye for an houre. 
Therefore beyng in the tenth Moone, it hath thys 
vertue in the fyrste or tenth houre. But there is 
movyng of the order, because when it is under the 
toung, if our thought bee of any busynes, whether 
it ought to be or no, if it ought to be, it is 
fixed stedfastly to the hart, so that it may not 
be plucked awaye, yf not, the harte leapeth backe 
from it. Also Philosophers have sayd that it 
healeth Petificos * weake men. 

__________ 

If thou wylt that seethyng water come forth anon, 
after thou hast put in thy hande. Take the stone 
whych is called Topazion, of the Ile Topasis, or 
because it sheweth all stafilitude (?) of gold. 
And there be two kyndes of it, one is utterlye 
lyke golde; and thys is more precious. The other 
kynd is of the colour of Saffron, of bryghter 
colour then golde is, thys is more profitable. 

It hath beene proved in oure tyme, that if it be 
put in seethyng water, it maketh it to run over, 
but if thou put thy hand in it, the water is 
drawen out anone, and one of our brethren dydde 
thys at Paryse. It is good also agaynst 
(Emorhoicam et stimaticam, or limatike ?)passion 
or griefe. 

__________ 

If thou wilt plucke of the skin of thyne or an 
other mans hande. Take the stone which is called 
Medora, of the region Media, in the which the 
people dwelling are called Medye. And there be two 
kyndes of it blacke and grene. It is sayd of old 
Philosophers and also of Philosopfers being in 
thys tyme, if the blacke be broken and resolved in 
hoate water, if anye man washe hys handes in that 
water, the skyn of his hands shal be plucked of 
anone. Philosophers saye also that it is good 
agaynst the goute and blindnes of the eyes, and it 
nourisheth hurreed and weake eyes. 

__________ 

If thou wilt that a man suffe no payne nor be 
tormented. Take the stone which is called 
Memphitis, of the citye which is called Memphis, 
and it is a stone of such vertue as Aaron and 
Hermes say; if it be broken and mixed wyth water, 
and geven to hym to drinke which woulde bee burned 
of suffer anye tormentes, that drincken induceth 
so great unablenesse to feele, that hee that 
suffereth feeleth neither paine nor tormentyng. 

__________ 

If thou wylt make a fyre continually unable to 
quenched or put out. Take the stone whych is 
called Abaston, whyche is of the colour of yron, 
and there is founde verye muche of it in Arabia. 
If that stone be kyndled of inflamed it maye never 
bee putte oute or quenched, bee use it hath the 
nature of the fyrst fethers of the Salamandre, by 
reason of meldy fatnesse, which nourishet the 
fyre, kyndled in it. 

__________ 

If thou wylt overcome thy enemyes. Take the stone 
which is called adamas, in Englishe speeche a 
Diamonde and it is of shyning colour, and very 
hard in so mache that it can not be broken but by 
the bloud of a goate, it groweth in Arabia, or in 
Cypres. And if it be bounden to the leaft syde, it 
is good agaynst enemyes, madnes, wilde beastes, 
venemous beasts, and cruell men and agaynst 
chyding and brawling, and agaynste venime and 
invasion of fantasies and some call it Diamas. 

__________ 

If thou wilt eschewe all perils and all terrible 
thinges and have a strong hart. Take the stone 
which is called Agathes, it is blacke, and hath 
whyte vaynes. There is another of the same kynde, 
lyke to whyte colour. And the third groweth in a 
certayne Ile, haynge blacke vaynes, and that 
maketh to overcome peryls, and geve strength to 
the hart, and maketh a man mighty, pleasaunt, 
delectable, and helpeth agaynst adversities. 

__________ 

If thou desyre to obtayne any thyng from any man. 
Take the stone which is called Alectoria, *it is a 
stone of a Cock and it is whyte as the Christall, 
* it is drawen out of the Cockes gysar or maw, 
after that he hath ben gelded more then four 
yeres, and it is of the graetnesse of a beane. It 
maketh the belly pleasant and stedfast, and beyng 
put under the tong it quencheth thirst. And this 
last hath bene prooved in oure tyme, and I 
perceyved it quickly. 

__________ 

If thou wilt overcome beasts, and interprete or 
expounde all dreames, and prophecie of thynges to 
come. Take the stone whyche is called Esmundus of 
Asmadus, it is of divers colours, it putteth oute 
alle poyson, and maketh a man to overcome hys 
adversaries, and geveth Prophecying, and the 
interpretation of alle dreames, and maketh a manne 
to understande darcke questions, hard to bee 
understand or assoyled. 

__________ 

If thou wilt overcom thy enemyes and ire debate. 
Take the stone whyche is called Berillus, it is of 
pale colour, and may be sene through as water 
beare is about whith thee, and thou shalt overcome 
all debate, *shalt dryve awaye thy enemyes, and it 
maketh thy enemy meeke. It causeth a man to be 
well manered, als Aaron sayth, it geveth also good 
understandyng. 

__________ 

If thou wilt have good understanding of things 
that may be felt, and that thou may not be made 
dronken. Take the stone whyche is called Amatistus 
and it is of purple colour, and the best is founde 
in Inde, it is good agaynst dronkennes, and geveth 
good understandyng in thynges that may be 
understand. 

__________ 

If thou wylt forejudge or conjecture of thynges to 
come. Take the stone which is called Celonites, it 
is of purple and divers other colours, *it is 
founde in the heade of the Snayle. If any man wyll 
beare this stone under hys toung, he shal 
forejudgen prophecy of thinges to come. But 
notwythstanding it hath no vertue but shinyng. 
Prima cum fuerit accensa et crescens monoytes in 
ultima defendeate, so meaneth Aaron in the booke 
of vertues of herbes and stones. 

__________ 

If thou wylt pacify tempestes and go over fluddes. 
Take the stone which is called Corallus Coral, and 
some be red and some white. And it hath bene 
proved that it stemmeth strayght bloud, putteth 
away the foolyshnes of hym that beareth is, geveth 
wysedome. And this hath bene proved of certain men 
in our time. And it is good against tempestes and 
peryls of fludders. 

__________ 

If thou wylt kyndle fyre. Take the Christall 
stone, *put it nye under the circle of the Sun, 
that is to say agaynst the Sun, and put it nye any 
thing that mai be burned, and incontinentlye the 
heate of the Sunne shining wyll set it a fyre. And 
if it bee droonke wyth hony, it encreaseth mylke. 

__________ 

If thou wylt that the Sunne appeare of bloudy 
colour. Take the stone which is called Elitropia. 
It is greene lyke to the precious stone called the 
Emeraud. And it is sprinkled wyth bloudy drops. 
The Aegromansers call it Gemma Babylonica, the 
precious stone of Babylon by the propper name. But 
if it bee annoynted wyth the iuyce of an herbe of 
the same name, and bee put in a vessel ful of 
water, it maketh the Sunne to seme of bloudye 
colour, as if the Eclipse were seene. The cause of 
thys is, for it maketh all the weater to bubble up 
into a little cloud, which makyng the ayre thycke, 
lettetth the Sunne to be seene, but as it wer read 
in a thycke colour, a lytle after the cloud goeth 
away by dropping downe lyke dew, as it were by 
droppes of rayne. Thys also borne about, maketh a 
man of good fame, whole and of long life. It is 
sayde of old Philosophers, that a man annoynted 
wyth an herbe of thys name, as we have said 
before, excelleth with vertue. *Elitropia is found 
oftentymes in Cipres and Inde. 

__________ 

If thou wylte make seethyng water to be colde, 
which standeth upon the fyre. Take the stone which 
is called Epibretes, which put in water against 
the eye of the Sunne, putteth forth fyry beames of 
the sun. And is is sayde of olde and newe 
Philosophers, if it bee put in seethyng water, the 
bublyng up or seethyng wyll soone cease, and a 
lytle after it wil ware cold, and it is a shining 
and ruddy stone. 

__________ 

If thou wylt eschew illusions and fantasies, and 
overcome alle causes or matters. Take the stone 
which is called Calcedonius, * it is pale browne 
of colour, and somewhat darke, if this be perced 
and hanged about the necke with the stone which is 
called Sinerip it is good against all fantastical 
illusions, and it maketh to overcom al causes or 
matters in fute, and keepeth the body agaynst thy 
adversaries. 

__________ 

If thou wylt be acceptable, and pleasant. Take the 
stone which is called Celidonius, * of it there is 
some blacke, and some somewhat red, * it is drawen 
out of the bellye of Swallowes. If that which is 
somewhat read be wrapped in a lynnen cloth, or in 
a Calves skyn, borne under the left arme hole, it 
is good against madnes, * olde syckenesses and 
diseases, and the sleeping or forgetfull sicknes, 
and Contra epidinam, whyche is a scabbe that 
runneth through the whole body. 

Evax sayth that this stone maketh a man eloquent, 
acceptable, and pleasunt. The black stone is good 
agaynst wylde beastes, and wrath, and bryngeth the 
busynes begunne to an ende. And if it be wrapped 
in the leaves of Celidon, it is said that it 
maketh the sight dul. And they should be drawen 
out in the moneth of August, and two stones are 
found oftentimes in one Swallow. 

__________ 

If thou wylt be victorious agaynst thy 
adversaries. Take the stone which is called 
Bagates, * it is of divers colors. The ancient 
Philosophers say, that it hath beene prooved in 
the prince Alcides, whych how lang he dyd beare 
it, hee had alwayes victory; it is a stone of 
divers colours, lyke the skyn of a Kyd. 

__________ 

If thou wylt knowe before of anything to come. 
Take the stone which is called Bena, which is like 
a beast toth, and put it under thy toung. And as 
Aaron and the olde Philosophers sayth, how long 
thou wylt hold it so alwayes conjecturyng, thou 
shalt prophecye thynges to come, and thou shalt 
not erre in any wyse for iudging. 

__________ 

If thou wilt that thy garment be unable to be 
burned. Take the stone which is called Histinos, 
which as Isidorus sayeth is lyke to Saffron. And 
it is found in a part of Spaine. Thys stone 
bloweth like a paire of bellowes, by raesaon of 
the windines in it. It is found nye the Gades of 
Hercules, that is twoo Iles by the further partes 
of Spayne beyonde Garnade, and if thys stone be 
set in a garment, it can be burned in no wyse, but 
it shineth like fyre. And some men say, that the 
white Carbunkle stone, is of this kynde. 

__________ 

If thou wylt have favour and honour. Take the 
stone whiche is called Tabrices, and is is lyke to 
the Christall stone. The ancient Philosphers as 
Evax and Aaron saye of it, that it geveth 
eloquince, favour and honour, and is is sayde 
moreover, that is healeth every dropsy. 

__________ 

If thou wylt drive away fantasies and folishnes. 
Take the stone whych is called Chrysolitus, and it 
is of the same vertue with Attemicus, als Aaron 
and Evax say in the booke of the nature of herbes 
and stones. This stone set in gold and borne, 
driveth away foolishnes, and expelleth fantasies. 
It is affirmed to gene wiset (?) ome, and it is 
good agaynst feare. 

__________ 

If thou wylt iudge the opinions and thoughts of 
others. Take the stone which is called Garatides, 
and it is of blacke colour, let one hold it in hys 
mouth, it maketh him that beareth it mery and in 
favour, and well estemed wyth all men. 

__________ 

If thou wylt have victory and amitie. Take the 
stone whych is called Nicomay, and it is the same 
that is called Alablaster, and it is of a kynde of 
Marble, and it is white and shynyng. And oyntments 
are made of it for the buryeng ot the dead. 

__________ 

If thou wilt that a man sleping tel to thee what 
he hath done. Take the stone whyche is called 
Quirien, thys stone is founde in the nest of the 
Lapwynge or blacke Plover. 

__________ 

If thou would obtayne any thyng of any man. Take 
the stone which is called Badianus, and it is 
black shining through, whych when the heade of a 
Cocke is geven to Emmeters of Pysmeres to eate, it 
is founde a long tyme after in the heade of the 
Cocke. And the same stone is also called 
Conatides. 

__________ 

If thou would make that neyther Dogs nor Hunters 
maye hurt any beast whych they hunt. Put before 
them the stone which is called Luperius, * it wyll 
tun soone to the stone. Thys stone is founde in 
Lybia, and all beastes com to it as their 
defender. It letteth that neyther Dogges nor 
Hunter may hurt them. 

__________ 

If thou wilt burne any mans hande without fyre. 
Take the stone whych is called Unces, whyche was 
called bifore Principenapti, which is fyre, and it 
is as fyre. If any man straine hard this stone, it 
burneth soone hys hand lyke as it were burned wilt 
a materiall fyre, whych is a marveilous thyng. 

__________ 

If thou wylt cure melancoly, or a fever quarterne 
in any man. Take the stone which is called Lapis 
lazuli. It is lyke to the colour of the heaven, * 
ther is with in litle bodies of gold. And it is 
sure, *proven, that it cureth melancoly, and the 
fever quarterne. 

__________ 

If thou would make ane mans wyt sharpe and quicke, 
* angement bys ryches, and also prophecy things to 
come. Take the stone which is called Smaragdus. In 
English speeche an Emeraude. And it is verye 
cleare, shyninge thoroughe and plaine, but it that 
is yelow is better. It is taken out of the nests 
of Gripes or Gryffons, it doth both comfort and 
save, and being born, it maketh a man to 
understande well, and giveth to him good memory, 
angmenteth the ritches of him that beareth it and 
if any man shall hold it under hys toung, he shall 
prophecy anone. 

__________ 

If thou wylt have a raynebow to appeare. Take the 
stone which is called Iris, and it is white like 
to Christall, four square, of having horns. If 
this stone be put in the beame of the Sunne, by 
turnyng back, it maketh a raynbowe soone to 
appeare in the wall. 

__________ 

If thou wylt make a stone whych may never be made 
hote. Take the stone which is called Gallasia. It 
hath the figuere of hail and the colour and 
hardnes of the Diamonde. If thys stone be put in a 
very great fyre, it wyll never be hot, and the 
cause is for it hath the holes so strayt together, 
that the heate may not enter in the bodye of the 
stone. Also Aaron and Evax say, that this stone 
borne mitigateth wrath, lecherye, and other hote 
passions. 

__________ 

If thou wylt knowe whether the wyfe lyeth with any 
other maryed man or no. Take the stone called 
Galeritis whyche is the same that is called 
Catabres and it is founde in Libia and Brittania, 
the most nobie Ile of the world, where in is 
conteined both countries England and Scotland. It 
is of double colour black, and the colour of 
Saffron, and it is found gray coloured turnyng to 
palenesse. It healeth the dropsy, and it bindeth 
the bealies that have a laske. And Avicenna sayth, 
that if the same be broken and washed or begeven 
to a woman to be wassen, if she be not a virgin 
she wyll pysse soone, if she be a vyrgin she wyll 
not pysse. 

__________ 

If thou wilt overcome thy enemyes. Take the stone 
whych is called Draconites, from the Dragons head. 
And if the stone be drawen aut from hym alyve, it 
is good against al poisons, and he that bereth it 
on his left arme, shal overcome all hys enemies. 

__________ 

If thou wilt engender love between any two. Take 
the stone which is called Echites, and it is 
called of some Aquileus because the Egles put 
these in theyr nestes. It is of purple colour, and 
it is founde nygh the banks of the Occean sea, and 
some tyme in Persia, and it conteyneth alwayes an 
other stone in it, whych foundeth in it, whan it 
is named. It is sayde of auncient Philosophers, 
that this stone hanged up in the leaft shoulder, 
geveth love betweene the Husband and the wyfe. It 
is profytable to women great with child, it 
letteth untimely byrth, it mitigateth the vecyll 
of makyng an frayde, and it is sayde to be good to 
them that have the falling sicknes. And as the men 
of Chaldea saye, if poyson be in the meate, if the 
afore sayd stone be put in it, it letteth that the 
meate maye bee swallowed downe. And if it bee 
taken out, the meate is sone swallowed downe. And 
I did see that thys last was examined sensybly of 
one of our brethren. 

__________ 

If thou wilt make a man sure. Take the stone whych 
is called Tepistites. It is found in the sea, it 
is shining and ruddy. And it is said in the boke 
of Alchorath that if it bee borne before the 
harte, it maketh a man sure, * refrayneth, 
*mitigateth al seditions and discordes. It is sayd 
also that is mitigateth the flyes wilt long hynder 
legges, whiche burneth corne with touchyng of it, 
*devoureth the residue, foules, cloudes, hayle, 
*such as have power of the fruts of the earth. And 
it hath ben proved of Philosophers of late time, 
*of certaine of our brethren, that it being put 
agaynst the beames of the sunne putteth foorth 
fyrye beames. Also if thys stone be put in 
seethyng water, the seethyng wyl sone cease, and 
the water wil be cold a lyttle after. 

__________ 

If thou wylt that strangers walke sure and safe. 
Take the stone whyche is called Hyacinthus, in 
English a Jacinet, it is of many colours. The 
grene is best, * it hath red vaines and it should 
be set in sylver, and it is said in certaine 
lectures, that ther is two kindes of it, of the 
water, and of the Saphyre. The Jacint of the water 
is yelow white. The Jacint of the Saphires is veri 
shining yelow, having no watrishnes, *this is 
better, *it is written of this in lectures of 
plilosophers, that it being borne on the finger or 
neck, maketh strangers sure, and acceptable to 
theyr gestes. And it provoketh sleepe for the 
coldnes of it, the Jacinet of Saphyre hath 
properly this. 

__________ 

If thou wylt be saved from divers chaunces and 
pestilent bitternes. Take the stone which is 
calles Orithes, of which there be three kindes, 
one blacke an other grene and the thyrd, of the 
whych one part is rough, *the other playne, and 
the colour of it is lyke the colour of plate of 
yron, but the grene hath white spots; this stone 
born preserveth from divers chaunces and peryls of 
death. 

__________ 

If thou wylt make peace. Take the stone which is 
called a Saphyre, which commeth from the East into 
Inde, and it that is of yelowe colour is best, 
which is not very bright, it maketh peace and 
concord, it maketh the kinde pure and devout 
toward God, it strengtheneth the mynde in good 
[62[ thinges, and maketh a man to cole from inward 
heete. 

__________ 

If thou wylt cure a virgin. Take the stone whych 
is calles Saunus, from the Ile Sauna. It doth make 
firm or consolidate the minde of the bearer of it. 
And being bound to the hand of a woman travelyng 
wyth childe it letteth the byrth, and keepeth it 
in belly. Therfore it is forbidden in suche a 
busynesse, that thys stone touch a woman. 

__________ 

Thou shalt fynde many other like things in the 
booke of mines of Aaron and Evax. 

The manner of doyng theese things consisteth in 
this, that the bearer for a good effect bee cleane 
from alle pollutien or defilyng of the bodye. 
Isidorus seemeth to saye that Licania hath in the 
hed a stone of most noble vertue, *is of white 
colour, which brayed, * geven to them that have 
the strangulion, to drincke, it looseth perfectly 
the uryne, and shortlye healeth it, putteth away 
the fever quartern. Also it taketh away a white 
spot or pearle in the eye. Also if a woman with 
child beare it on her, shee shall not loose her 
byrth. Also the flesh of them sodden and eaten, is 
good to them that have an exulceration or sore in 
the lounges, wyth a consumption of all the bodye, 
and spitting of bloud. 

Also the pouder of the beastes wyth the ryve or 
barke of trees, with some graines of Pepper, is 
profitable against the Emerodes and growing out of 
fleshe about the buttockes. Lykewyse they being 
raw braied with the rindes or barkes of trees, 
breake rype impostumes. 

__________ 

The thyrde booke of Albertus Magnus, of the 
vertues of certayne beastes. 

For as muche as it hath bene spoken in the booke 
before of certain effects caused by the vertue of 
certayne stones; and of theyr marvelous vertue or 
operation; nowe we wyll speake in thys Chapter of 
certayne effects, caused of certayne beastes. 

__________ 

Aquila An Eagle. 

Casso 

Bubo A shricke owle. 

Hircus A gote bock. 

Camelus A Camell. 

Lepus An Hare. 

Experiolus, 

Leo A Lyon. 

Foca A Purpays. 

Anguilla An Eele. 

Mustela A Wesel 

Upupa A lapwing or black plover 

Pelicanus A Pellicon. 

Cornus A Crow. 

Milvus A kyt, or gleyde. 

Turtur A Turtell. 

Talpa A Mole. 

Mervis A black macke of Owle. 

__________ 

Aquila the Eagle is a byrde knowen well ynough of 
men of Chaldea, they call it Vorax, the Greekes 
cal it Rimbicus. Aaron and Evax say, that it hath 
a marveilous nature or vertue. For if the brain of 
it be turned into pouder, and be mixed wyth the 
iuyce of the Hemlocke, they that eate of it shall 
take them selves by the heare, and they shall not 
leave the bolde, so long as the beare that they 
have receyved. The cause of thys effect is, for 
that the brayne is very cold, in somuch that it 
engendreth a fantastical vertue, shutting the 
powers by smoke. 

__________ 

Casso is a beast that is knowen well inoughe, it 
is called Rapa of the Chaldeys, and of the Greekes 
Orgalo. Aaron sayth of thys, if the teete of it be 
borne of any man, he shall never bee vexed, but he 
shall desyre alwayes to go foorth. Also he that 
beareth the feete of it shall alwayes overcome, 
and shall bee feared of hys enemyes. And he sayde 
that hys ryght eye wrappeth in a Wolves skyn, 
maketh a man pleasaunt, acceptable, and gentle. 
And yf meate bee made of the foresayde thynges, or 
pouder geven to any man in meate, the gever shall 
be greatly loved of hym that receyveth it. Thys 
last was proved in our tyme. 

__________ 

Bubo a shrick Owle, is a byrd wel inough knowen, 
which is called Magis of the Chaldeis, and Hysopus 
of the Greekes. There bee marvaylous vertues of 
thys fowle, for if the hart and ryght foote of it 
be put upon a man sleeping, hee shall saye anone 
to thee what soever thy shalt aske of hym. And 
thys hath been prooved of late tyme of our 
brethren. And if any man put this under his arme 
hole, no Dog wyll baske at hym, but keepe 
scilence. And yf these thynges aforesayde ioyned 
together with a wyng of it be hanged up to a tree 
byrdes wil gather together tot that tree. 

__________ 

Hircus the gote buck is a beast well inough 
knowen, it is called of the Chaldeis Ecbiedi, of 
the Greekes Massif. If the bloud of it be taken 
warme with viniger, and the iuyce of fenil, and 
sodden together with a glasse, it maketh the glas 
saft as dow, and it may be cast agaynst a wall, 
and not be broken. And if the aforesayd confection 
be put in a vessel, and the face of ani man be 
anointed with it, marveilous, * horrible thinges 
shall appeare, and it shall seeme to hym that he 
must dye. And if the aforesayd thing be put in the 
fyre, and there be there anye man that hath the 
fallyng sycknes, by puttyng to the Lode stone, he 
falleth anone tot the ground as dead, and yf the 
water of Eeles bee geven to hym to drynke, he shal 
be cured anone. 

__________ 

Camelus the Camel is a beast knowen well ynough. 
It is called of the Chaldeis Ciboi, of the Greekes 
Iphim. If the bloud of it be put into the skyn of 
the beast called Stellio and then set on any mans 
head which is like a Lisard, having on his back 
spots lyke starres, is shalle seeme that he is a 
Giant, and that hys heade is in heaven; and thys 
is sayde in the booke of Alegorath of Mercurye; 
and a lantern anoynted with the bloud of it, be 
lyghtened, it shall seme that all men standing 
about have Camels heads, so that there be no 
outward lyght of an other candell. 

__________ 

Lepus the Hare is a beast wel ynough knowen, of 
the Chaldeis it is called Vetercellum and of the 
Greekes Onollosa, the vertue of it is shewed to be 
marvelous, for Evax and Aaron sayde, that the 
feete of it ioyned with a stone or with the head 
of a blacke Owsel, moveth a man to hardynesse, so 
that he feare not death. And if it be bounden to 
hys leaft arme, he may go wheter he wyll, and he 
shall returne safe without peryll, and if it be 
geven to a Dog to eate, wyth the hart of a Wesell, 
from thence forth he shall not crye out, although 
he shoulde be kylled. 

__________ 

Experialus is a beast well ynough knowen; if the 
nove (?) of it be burned, *consolidated, * be 
given in meate to any horse, he wyl not eate for 
the space of iii daies. And if the forsayd things 
be put with a litle Turpentine it shall be clear, 
and secondly it shalbe made as a cloud and bloud, 
and if it be casten a litle in water, an horrible 
thunder shalbe made. 

__________ 

Leo a Lyon is a best well ynough knowen, of the 
Chaldeis called Balamus, of the Greekes Beruth. If 
thonges of leather be made of the skyn of hym, and 
a man gyrded wyth them, hee shall not feare his 
enemies. And if any man wyll eate of the flesh of 
him, and wyll drynke of hys water for three dayes, 
he shall be cured from the fever quartaine. And if 
anye part of hys eyes be put under a mans arme 
hole and borne, all beasts shal flee away, bowing 
downe their head unto their low bellyes. 

__________ 

Foca a Purpais is a fish well inough knowen, of 
the Chaldeis it is called Daulauber, of the 
Grecians Labor, thys fyshe is of divers nature. If 
the foring of it be taken, and be put with a 
lyttle of his hart of it in water, for a sure; ty 
fishes wyll gather there together. And if thou 
wilt beare it under thy arme hole, no man shal be 
able to have victory against thee, thou shalt have 
a gentle and pleasaunt iudge. 

__________ 

Anguilla an Eele, it is a fysh sufficiently 
knowen. The vertues of it are marvaylous, as Evax, 
Aaron saye, for if it dye for fault of water, the 
harte remaynynge whole, and strong viniger bee 
taken and mixed wyth the bloud of the fowle called 
in Latine Vultur, which some call in English a 
Grive, and some a Raven, and be put under dung in 
any place, they shall all how manye so ever they 
be recover their lyfe, as they had before; and if 
the worme of thys Eele be drawen out, and put in 
the aforesayd confection the space of one moneth, 
the worme shalbe chaunged into a very black Eele, 
or whych yf any man shall eate, he shall dye. 

__________ 

Mustela the Wesell is a beast sufficiently knowen. 
If the hart of this beast be eaten yet quaking, it 
maketh a man to know thynges to come, and if any 
Dogge eate of the harte wyth the eyes and tong of 
it, he shall soone lose hys voyce. 

__________ 

Upupa the Lapwing or blacke Plover, is a byrde 
sufficientlye knowen, of the Chaldeyes it is 
called Boridieta, of the Greekes Ison. The eyes of 
it borne, make a man grosse or great; and if the 
eyes of it be borne before a mans brest, all hys 
enemys shall be pacified; and yf thou shall have 
the head of it in thy purse, thou canst not be 
deceyved of any marchant. Thys hath bene proved 
this day of our brethren. 

__________ 

Pellicanus the Peillican is a byrd sufficiently 
knowen, it is called of the Chaldeis Voltri, and 
of the Greekes Iphalati. The vertue of it is 
marveilous. If yong byrdes bee kylled and their 
hart not be broken, and if a part of her bloude 
bee taken, and bee put warme in the mouth of her 
yong byrdes, they wyl receive soone agayne life as 
before. If it be hanged up to the necke of any 
byrde it shall flye alwayes untyll it be dead. And 
the right foote of it put under an hoate thyng, 
after three monethes shalbe engendred quick, and 
shall moove it selfe of the unmour and heate whych 
the byrde hath. And Hermes in the booke of 
Alchorath, and Plinius do witnesse thys. 

__________ 

Corvus, called of some a Raven, * of others a 
Crow, the vertue of this fowle is marveylous, as 
Evax and Aaron reherse. If her egges be sodden, 
put agayne in the nest, the Raven goeth sone to 
the read sea, in a certayne Ile where Aldoricus or 
Alodrius is buryed, and she bryngeth a stone 
wherewyth she toucheth her egs, and the egges be 
as raw as they were before. It is a marvelous 
thyng to styrre up sodden egges. If thys stone bee 
put in a ryng, and the leafe of the Laurell tree 
put under it, and a man beyng bounden in chaynes, 
or a doore shut, be touched therwith he that is 
bounden shall soone be loosed, and the doore 
shalbe opened. And yf thys stone be put in a mans 
mouth, it geveth to hym understandyng of all 
byrdes. The stone is of Inde, because it is founde 
in Inde, after certain wise man and sometyme in 
the read sea. It is of divers colours, and it 
maketh a man to forget all wrath, as we have said 
above in the same stone. 

__________ 

Milvus a Kyte or Gleyde is a byrd sufficientlye 
knowen, of the Chaldeys it is called Bysicus, of 
the Greekes Melos. If the head of it be taken and 
borne before a mans breast, it getteth unto hym 
love and favour of all man and women. If it be 
hanged to the necks of a Henne, she wyll never 
cease to tnune(?), untyll it be put away; and yf a 
Cockes combe bee annoyted wyth the bloude of it, 
hee wyll not crow from thence foorth. There is a 
certayne stone found in the kners of thys byrd, if 
it be looked craftely, which if it be put in the 
meate of two enemies, they shall be made frendes 
and there shalbe made very good peace among them. 

__________ 

Turtur a Turtel is a bird wel ynough knowen, it is 
called Mulon of the Chaldeys, of the Greekes 
Pilax. If the harte of thys fowle be borne in a 
Wolves skin, hee that beareth it, shall never have 
an appetite to cowant (?) lethery from thence 
foorth. If the hart of it be burned, and be put 
and done the egges of any fowle, ther can never 
yong byrdes be engendyrd of them from thence 
foorth; and if the feete of thys fowle bee hanged 
to a tree, it shall not beare fruit from hence 
forth; and yf an heary place, and an horse bee 
annoyted with the bloud of it, and wyth water 
wherin that a Mole was sodden, the blacke (?) 
causwyll fall of. 

__________ 

Talpa a Mole is a beast well inough knowen. The 
vertue of this beast is mervilous as it is es 
hearsed of Philosphers. If the foote of it be 
wrapped in the leafe of a Laurel tree, and be put 
in the mouth of an horse, he wyl flee for feare. 
And it it be put in the nest of any fowle, there 
shall never come foorth yong byrdes of those egs. 
And if thou wilt drive away Moles, put it in a 
pot, and quicke brymstone kyndled, all the other 
Moles shal come together there. And the water of 
that decoction maketh a blacke horsse whyte. 

__________ 

Merula, a black Mack or owsell, is a fowle wel 
inough knowen, and the vertue of it is marveylous. 
For if the fethers of the ryght wyng of it be 
hanged up in the myddest of an house, wyth a red 
fease, whych was never occupyed, no man shall bee 
able to staye in that house, untyll it be put 
away. And if the hart of it be put under the head 
of a man sleepyng and he be enquired, he wyll say 
all that he hath done wyth an hye voyce. 

__________ 

The maner of doing all these beforesayd things, 
that the effect maye bee good and profitable, is 
that it be done under a favorable planet as 
Jupiter * Venus, and this is their dayes and 
houres. If any man therfore wyll do these thinges 
truly, wythout doubt he shall fynde truth, and 
verye great effect or vertue in the before sayd 
thinges, as I have proved * sene oftentymes 
together wyth oure brethren in our tyme. Therefore 
let hym consider here, which shall fynde plentye 
of the before sayde thinges, that he possesseth a 
lordship and vertues. For if they be done in theyr 
contraryes, as a good effect in a makelous sygne, 
his vertue and effect should be letted for hys 
contrary, and se good and treu things should be 
despised. We see very manye to be deceyved in sure 
and true thynges whych if they had knowen, and 
kepte the qualities of sygnes or tymes they should 
have obteyned their wyll and effect with afore 
sayd thynges. 

Isidorus seemeth to say, that the ashes of a great 
Frog, borne at a womans gyrdle, restrayeth greatly 
the comming of a womans naturall purgation. 

And in a probation if it be bonden to a Hens 
necke, there shall come forth no bloude of her, or 
of any other beast. 

Also it bee tempered wyth water, and the heade or 
an other place be anoynted with it, heare wyl no 
more grow there. 

If any man beare a Dogs hart an his left syde, al 
the Dogs shall holde theyr peace, and not barke at 
hym. 

If any man wyll bynde the ryght eye of a Wolfe on 
hys right fleve, neither men nor Dogs may hurt 
hym. 

Here are ended some secretes of Albartus Magnus of 
Tolone upon Natures, Vertues, and effects of 
certain Herbes, Stones, and Beastes. And here 
followeth in what houre every Planet hath hys 
dominion. 

__________ 

And that all thinges whych have bene sayd before, 
* also shalbe sayd after, may be applied more 
easely to the effects of their desyre, whyche have 
not cunning of the starres, fyrst thou shalt note, 
that an houre is taken two waies, that is equal, 
and unequal. The equall houre is the houre of the 
dyal or clocke, which is alwayes equall. The 
unequall houre is considered after that the daies 
be longer or shorter. For the Astrologians 
consider alwayes the time in the which the Sunne 
standeth upon hys halfe sphere, and they cal it 
the day or the bow of the day, and by the contrary 
the night. They devided that tyme whych they call 
the daye in xii equal partes, whith be the houres 
of the same day, and whatsoever is sayd of the 
day, thou must understand contrarywise of the 
night. And that thou mayst understand more 
clerely, let us put the case; The sunne commeth 
out from hys halfe sphere at viii of the dyall, we 
have unto the goyng downe of the Sunne xviii 
houres of the dyal, which we may multiplye by lx, 
as there be lx minutes of every houre of the 
dyall, and we shall have nyne hundreth, * three 
score minutes, which we maye devyde by xii, as 
there be xii houres of the daye, applying to every 
houre hys porcion, * we have lxxx mynutes in an 
houre. Therefore every houre of a daye shall have 
lxxx minutes, which shall conteyne i houre, * one 
thirde of an houre of the dyal. And in al that 
tyme the dominion of the Planet of that houre, we 
considered, als the table beneath written shall 
showe. Every houre of thys night shall not have 
but xl minutes, whych thou shalt understand 
lykewyse of others, accordyng to the risyng of the 
Sunne upon the grounde, because that houre whyche 
is in the myddest betwene nyght and day, whych is 
called the daunyng of the daye, is not called the 
daye, but the daye is properly understand, whan 
the Sunne maye be seene. 

Therefore thou wylling to consider the dominion of 
every Planet, for in everye houre every Planet 
hath hys dominion, thou shalte consyder the houres 
themselves after the way above wrytten, and so 
thou maeiest come to the ende of thy purpose. Also 
the begynning of the daye is considered from one 
of the clocke of the day going before after noone. 
So let the Sunday bee devvded into two equall 
partes, and it is of twelve houres devide into 
two, then the halfe daye shal bee xii and the 
fyrst hour folowyng will bee the begynning of 
Mondaye. 

__________ 

Therefore thou shall consyder that Sonday hath hys 
sygne under the Sunne. 

Monday hath hys sygne under the Moone. 

Teusday hat hys sygne under Mars. 

Wedensday hath hys sygne under Mercurius. 

Thursday hath hys sygne under Jupiter. 

Friday hath his sygne under Ve- nus. 

Saturday hath his sygne under Saturnus. 

It is to be noted that every true acte make be 
done under this planete. And it is better yf it be 
done in the proper day of the planet, and in his 
own proper houre as for an example. 

Under Saturnus lyfe, buylding doctrine, mutation. 

Under Jupiter, honor, thing desired, rytches, 
apparel. 

Under Mars, warre, pryson, matrimony, enemy. 

Under the sunne, hope, lucere, fortune, heyre 

Under Venus, freude or felowe, shype, way, lover, 
stranger. 

Under Mercury, ioise, det, feare. 

Under the Mone, polesy, dreame, marchandyse, 
thefte. 

__________ 

Of the houres of the dayes and nyghtes. 

And first of the houres of Sunday, in hys fyrst 
hour the Sunne, in the second Venus, in the third 
Marcurius, in the fourthe the Moone, in the fyft 
Saturnus, in the vi Jupiter, in the vii Mars, in 
the viii the Sunne, in the ix the Moon, in the 
xiii Saturnus. 

But in the fyrste houre of the nyghte Jupiter, in 
the seconde Mars, in the thyrde the Sunne, in the 
fourth Venus, in the fyfte Marcurius, in the vi 
the Mone, in the vii Saturnus, in the viii 
Jupiter, in the ix Mars, in the x the Sunne, in 
the xi Venus, in the xii Mercurius. 

In the fyrst houre of Monday the moone; in the 
second Saturnus; in the thyrd Jupiter, in the 
fourth Mars; in the fyft the sunne, in the sixt 
Venus; in the seventh Marcurius; in the viii mone, 
in the ix Saturnus; in the x Jupiter, in the xi 
Mars; in the xiii the Sunne. 

But in the first houre of Mondaies night Venus, in 
the second mercurius; in the third the mone, in 
the fourth Saturnus; in the fyft Jupiter; in the 
syxt mars; in the vii the Sunne; in the viii 
Venus; in the ix Mercurius, in the x the moone, in 
the xi Saturnus; in the xii Jupiter. 

In the fyrst houre of Teusday mars, in the second 
the Sunne, in the thyrde Venus; in the iv 
mercurius, in the fyft the moone, in the vi 
Saturnus; in the vii Jupiter, in the viii mars, in 
the ix the Sunne, in the x Venus, in the xi 
mercurius, in the xii the moone. 

But of Teusdaies nyghte in the first houre 
Saturnus, in the second Jupiter, in the third 
mars, in the fourth the Sunne; in the fyft Venus, 
in the syxt mercurius, in the seventh the moone; 
in the eyght Saturnus, in the ix Jupiter, in the 
tenthe mars, in the xi the Sunne, in the xii 
Venus. 

Of the Wedensday in his fyrst houre mercurius, in 
the seconde the moone, in the thyrde Saturnus, in 
the fourth Jupiter, in the fyft mars, in the syxt 
the Sunne, in the seventh Venus, in the eyght 
mercurius, in the nynthe the moone, in the tenth 
Saturnus, in the xi Jupiter, in the xii Mars. 

But on Wedensday at nyght is the fyrste houre the 
Sunne, in the second Venus, in the iii Marcurius, 
in the iv the Moone, in the v Saturnus, in the vi 
Jupiter, in the vii Mars, in the viiii the Moone, 
in the ix Venus, in the x Mercurius, in the xi the 
Moone, in the xii Saturnus. 

On Thursday in the first hour Jupiter; in the 
second Mars, in the iii the Sunne, in the iiii 
Venus, in the v Marcurius, in the vi the Moone, in 
the vii Saturnus; in the viii Jupiter; in the ix 
Mars, in the x the Sunne; in the xi Venus, in the 
xii Marcurius. 

But on Thursday night in the first hour the Moone; 
in the second Saturnus, in the iii Jupiter; in the 
iiii Mars; in the v the Sun in the vi Venus; in 
the vii Marcurius; in the viii the Moone; in the 
ix Saturnus; in the x Jupiter; in the xi Mars; in 
the xii the Sunne. 

On Friday at one of the clocke Venus; at two 
Marcurius; at iii the Moone; at iiii Saturnus; at 
v Jupiter; at vi Mars; at vii the Moone; at viii 
Venus; at ix Marcurius; at x the Moone; at xi 
Saturnus; at xii Jupiter. 

But on Friday night at one of the clock Mars; at 
two the Sun, at three Venus; at four marcurius, at 
fyve the moone, at sixe Saturnus; at vii Jupiter; 
at eyght Mars; at ix the Sunne, at x Venus; at xi 
Marcurius, at xii the Moone. 

On Saterdai of one of the clock Saturnus; at ii 
Jupiter, at iii Mars; at iiii the Sunne, at v 
Venus, at vi mercurius, at vii the moone, at viii 
Saturnus; at ix Jupiter, at x mars, at xi the 
sunne, at xii Venus. 

But on the Saterdayes night at one of the clock 
mercurius, at two the moone, at three Saturnus, at 
foure Jupiter, at v mars, at vi the sunne, at vii 
Venus, at viii mercurius, at ix the moone, at x 
saturnus, at xi Jupiter, at xii mars. 

And note that Jupiter and Venus be good. Saturnus 
and Mars evyll, but the Sunne and the Mone 
infamieane, and Mercurius is good with good and 
evyl wyth evyl. 

__________ 

After is was knowen of philosphers that al kindes 
of thinges move and iucene to them selves, because 
an active and rationable vertue is in them which 
they guyde and move als well to them selves, as to 
others as fyre moveth to fyre, and water to water. 

Also Avicenna sayth, when a thyng standeth long in 
salte, it is salt, and if any thyng stande in a 
sluykyng place, it is made slyuckyng. And yf any 
thynge stande with a bold man, it is made bolde, 
if it stande wyth a feareful man, is is mede 
fearful. And if a beast compaineth with men, it is 
made tractable and familiar; and generallye, is is 
verifyed of them by reasons and divers experience 
that every nature moveth to hys kynde and their 
verifieng is knowen in the fyrste qualities, and 
lykewyse in the seconde, and that same chaunceth 
in the third. And there is nothyng in alle 
dispositions, which moveth to it selfe, according 
to his whole power. And this was the roote and the 
second beginning of the woorkes of secretes, and 
turne thou not awaye the eyes of thy mynde. 

After that this was graffed in the myndes of the 
Philosophers and they founde the dispostion of the 
naturall thynges. For they knew surely that great 
colde is graffed in some, in some graete boldnes, 
in some great wrathe, in some greate feare, in 
some barraynes is engendred, in some is some other 
vertue engendred, eyther after the whole kind is 
boldenes and victory is naturall to a Lyon, or 
Secundum individum, as boldnes is in a harlot, not 
by mans kynde, but Persysviduum, there came of 
thys great marveiles and secretes able to he 
wrought. And they that understoode not the 
marveilousnes and how that might be, did dispite, 
* cast alway all thinges, in which the labour and 
wyt of Philosophors was, whose intent and labor 
was their own prayse in their proftelity that they 
might by they might by their writting make thinges 
called faise in great estimation. 

It is not secrete and hyd to the people, that 
everye lyke helpeth and strengt heveth hys lyke, 
and saveth, mooveth and embraceth it. And 
Phisitions have nowe syade and veryfied that fort 
heir parte, and have sayd that the Lyver helpeth 
the Lyver, and every member helpeth hys lyke. And 
the turalers of one metrall? into another, called 
Alchimistes, know that by manifest truth, how lyke 
Nature recneslye entreth and reloyceth of hys 
lyke. And every science hath now verified that in 
this lyke. And note then this diligently for great 
marveylous work es shal be seene upon thys. 

Now it is veryfied and put in all mens myndes, 
that everye naturall kynde, and that everye 
particular or generall nature hath, naturall 
amitie, and ennemitie so some other. And everye 
kynde hath some horrible enemy and destroying 
thing to be feared. Lykewyse some thyng reioyfing, 
exceedingly makyng glad, and agreeyng by nature. 
As the Sheepe do feare the Woolfe, and it knoweth 
not onely by sight, but also by tast. And the Hare 
feareth the Dogge, and the Mouse the Cat, and all 
foure footed Beast feare the Lyon, ald all flying 
Byrdes flye the Eagle, and al Beast feare Man, and 
this is graffed to every one by Nature. And some 
have this Secundum totam speciem, and at vil 
times, but some onelye Secundum individuum, and at 
certaine tyme. 

And it is the certifiyng of al Phi– lososphers, 
that they whych hate other in their life, hate 
their parts and all together after they dye. For 
a skyn of a Sheepe is consumed of the skyn of a 
Woolfe. And a Timbrel, Tabor or Drumslader made of 
the skin of a Woolfe causeth that whitch is made 
of shepes skyn not to be heard, and so is it in 
all others. And note thou this for a great secret. 

And it is manifest to al men, that a thyng is the 
end of natural things, and that all naturall 
thynges are by hym and hee overcometh all thynges. 
And naturall thynges have naturall only dienee 
graffed (?) in them to man, and that had man is 
ful of all marvelousnes, so that in him are al 
conditons, that is wolftemperaunce in heate and 
colde, temperate in every thyng that it wyll and 
in him be the vertues of al things, and all secret 
artes wortho in mans body it selfe, and every 
marvilous thing commeth forth of hym. But a man 
hath not all those thinges at one tymes but in 
Diverses individitis, and in hym is found the 
effect of all thynges. Thou shalt note how muche 
reason maye see and comprehende and how many thou 
may prove by the experience and to understande 
that whych is against man. 

Ther is no man but doth know that everything is 
ful of marvilous operations and thou knowest not 
whych is greatest operation, tyll thou hast proved 
it. But every man despyseth the thyng where of hee 
knoweth nothynge, and that hath done no pleasure 
to him. And every thing hath of hoate and colde, 
that is proper to him, and fire is not more 
marveilons then water, but they are divers and 
after an other manner, and Pepper is not more 
marveilous then Henbane, but after an other 
fashion. And hee that beleveth that 
marveylousnesse of thinges commeth from hoate and 
cold, cannot but say that there is a thing to be 
marveiled at in every thing seeing that every 
thyng hath of heate and cold that is convenient to 
it. And hee that beleveth that mervelousnes of 
things bee in Starres, (of whyche al things take 
their marveilous and hyd properties) may knowe 
yhat every thyng hath hys propper fygure 
celestiall agreyng tot hem, of which also commeth 
marvey- lousnesse in woorking, for every thyng 
whyche begynneth , begynneth under a determinate 
ascendent and celestiall influence, and getteth a 
proper effect or vertue of sufferyng ot woorkyng 
marveylous thing. And he that beleveth that the 
marveylousnes of thyngs commeth by amitie, and 
ennemite, * and ennentie, as buying and sellyng 
can not be denied so for to come. And that 
universall every thyng is full of marveylous 
thinges, after everye way of searching of the 
natures of them. And after that the Philosophers 
knewe thys, they began to proove and assaye what 
is in thinges. 

Plato sayth in Libro regimenti, that he that is 
not expert in the Arte of Logike of which the 
understanding is made ready, lifted by nimble or 
lyght and speedye. And he that is runnyng in 
natural science, in whyche are declared marveilous 
thynges, hath hoate and colde, and in which the 
properties of every thyng in it selve be shewed. 
And they which bee not cunnyng in the Science of 
Astrologie, and in sightes and figures of Starres, 
of whych every one of them whych be high, hath a 
vertue and propertie, can not understand not 
verify all thinges which Philosophers have 
wrytten, nor can certefye all thynges, whyche 
shall appeare to mans sences, and hee shall go 
wyth heavynesse of minde for in those things is 
marveylausnes of all thyngs whych are seene. 

A pure Astrologian beleveth that all marveilousnes 
of thinges and that the roote of experience, and 
of all thinges whych be apparent when they bee put 
together, were from a celestial figure which every 
thyng getteth in the houre of hys kyllyng or 
generation. And he hath veryfyed it in every thyng 
thath he hath proved. He findeth that the 
concourse of thynges is accordynge to the course 
of the Starres. And victorye, ioy and heavynes 
dependeth therof, and is iudged by it. And 
therefore he commanded all thynges to bee done in 
certaine daies, in certayne houres in certayne 
conjuctions, and seperations, in certayne 
ascentions, and theyr wyt could not attayne to all 
the knowledge of Philosophers. 

A great part of Philosophers and Phisitions have 
believed that all that marveylousnes of expertence 
and merveiles came from natural things, when they 
be brought to light by hotte and cold, drye and 
moyst, and they shew these four qualities, and set 
them to bee the rootes of all marveilous thinges, 
and the mixtion of them is required to every 
marveylous thyng, they verified that in these 
works. And when they found many experiences of 
Philosophers, they might not verifie those thinges 
by hoate and colde, but rather by hys contrary. It 
chaunceth them to marvayle continually, and to bee 
sory and to deny that often times although they 
see it. 

Therefore Plato said for a good cause, that hee 
which is not verye cunning to Logike, and wyse in 
the vertues of naturall thynges, and likewyse the 
aspectes of the Starres, shall not see the causes 
of marveilous thinges, nor know them, not 
participate of the treasures of Philosophers. 

Therefore I know that ever thing hath that which 
is his own of heate and cold, of whiche it maketh 
an other thyng effectual by accident, directlye 
and indirectly, and it hat hall his vertues of the 
Starres, and the figure of his generation, whyche 
it woorketh in mortalitie construction, and 
greeyng wyth other. 

And not wythstandyng every thyng hat hys owne 
naturall vertues, by whych every thyng is a 
begynnyng of a marveylous effect. Therefore seeyng 
that every nature moveth to hys owne lyke, it maye 
bee ymagined of the marveylousnes of effectes, to 
woorke every thynge that thou wylt, and thou shalt 
verefye it to all thyngs which thou shalt heare 
both of Phisieke and all other naturall Sciences, 
after a divers way of thy thought and wyt. And I 
shall shew the manyfestly that thou mayest helpe 
thy selfe, and prepare thee so receive those 
thinges whych I wyll tell to thee gathered and 
collected of Philosophers, and divers ancient 
autors. Therefore have thou thys thyng in thy 
mynd; that a hoate thyng, as muche as it by it 
selfe, helpeth in cold passions, and it is an 
experience in them, and agreeyth not to haote 
thynges, but accident of indirectlye, that whych 
is by accident, maye deceyve thee in the first 
qualities, for oftentymus a hoate thyng healeth 
hoate sycknesses, that is by accident or 
indirectly. 

Therefore if thou wylt have experience, first it 
becommeth thee to know of thinges whether they be 
hoate or colde, and note all that. And after thou 
knowest that, note what is the disposition and 
natural properities of it, whether it is boldnes 
or fearfulnes or honesty or barrennesse, or of 
what nature every thyng hath, hee is lyke to suche 
in theese thynges in whych hee is associate. Als 
the Lyon is a beast unfearfulll, and hath a 
naturall boldnes chiefly in hys forehead and hart. 
And therefore hee that taketh in hys fellowship 
the eye or hart of a Lyon, or the skyn whych is 
betwene hys two eyes, goeth bolde and not 
fearfull, and bringeth fearfulnes to al beastes. 
And generally, ther is in the Lion vertue to geve 
boldnes and magnanimitie. Likewise in a Harlot 
boldnes is exstrennate. And therefore Philosophers 
say, that if any man put on a common Harlottes 
smocke, or looke in her glasse, or have it with 
hym, in whych she be holdet her self, he goeth 
bold and unfearefull. Lykewyse there is great 
boldnesse in a Cocke, in so much that Philosophers 
say that the Lyon is astonied when he seeeth him. 
And therefore they say, if any man beare any thing 
of his, he goeth boldly. 

And generallye everye Beaste whych hath boldnes 
exterminate by Nature of chaunce, Si ex eo 
constucretur huiusmodi, it it geveth to it 
boldnes. Lykewyse if it be a barrayne Beast by 
nature, or by some accident followed to it, that 
it mooveth some to baraynnes. And therfore 
Philosophers have written that the Muyle, for as 
much as he is utterly barayne of hys propertye, 
and whosoever is hee, maketh men and women 
barrayne, when some part of hym is sociate to 
women. And lykewyse doth hee that was borne before 
the naturall tyme, and a gelded may, because 
barraynnes is graffed in all theese, and they are 
lyke to a man in this, which dat is associate to 
hym selfe theese inwarde thynges. Lykewyse they 
whych wyl move love, looke what Beast loveth moste 
greatlye, and specially in that houre in whyche it 
is moste styrred up in love, because there is than 
greatter strength in it in movyng to love they 
taken parte of the Beaste, in which carnal appetit 
is stronger, as ate the hart, the stones, and the 
mother ot matrice. 

And because the Swallow loveth greatly, as 
Philosophers say therefore they chose greatly to 
styred up love. 

Likewise the Dove , the Sparrow ar holden to be of 
this kinde, specially when they are delited in 
love, or carnall appetite, for than they provoke 
and bryng in love without resistance. 

Lykewise when they wil make a man to be a blobber, 
or of much speeche, they put nygthe to hym a part 
of a Dogs toung or hart; but when they wyll made a 
man eloquent or delicetable, they hisociate to hym 
a Nyghtingale. And to speake universallye, 
whatsoever vertue or naturall propertie they see 
in any naturall thing after an excesse, they 
thought to make like to move or incline any thing 
dysposed to that same. For they know surely that 
it might more helpe than hurt, inso much as it 
hath graffed in it of their nature; And al vertue 
moveth to such as it is, according to the power of 
it. And so must thou understande it to be in 
marveylous thynges, of whyche thou shalte nowe 
heare. And thys is said to indroduce thy mynde. 

The author of Libri regimenti saith that there be 
certain things manifest to the sences, in whych we 
know no reason. And certayn be manifest by reason, 
in whyche we perceive Nullum sensum, nee 
sensationem. And in the fyrste kynde of thynges we 
must believe no man, but experience and reason is 
to be proved by experience not to be denyed. And 
in the second kinde of thynges feeling is not to 
bee looked for, because it may not be felt. 
Therfore certain thynges must be believed by onely 
experience, wythout reason, for they be hyd from 
men. 

Certayne are to be beleved by onely reason, 
bycause they lacke sences. For although we knowe 
not a manyfest reason wherefore the Lode stone 
draweth to it yron, not withstandyng experience 
doth manyfest it so that no man maye deny it. And 
like as this is marveylous which onelye experience 
doth certify, so should a man suppose in other 
thynges. And hee should not deny any marveilous 
thing, although he hath no reason, but he ought to 
prove by experience, for the cause of marveilous 
thynges are hyd, and of so divers causes goyng 
before, that mans understanding after Plato maye 
not apprehend them. 

__________ 

Therfore the Lode stone draweth yron to it, and a 
certayn other stone draweth glasse. So marveylous 
thynges are declared of Philosophers to bee in 
thynges by experience, which no man ought to 
denye. And that is not proved after the fasshion 
of Philosophers which founde that, for the 
Philosophers sai that the Palme is a tree, and it 
hath the Male, * the Female, therfore when the 
Female is nigh the Male, thou seest that the 
Female bowes down to the Male, and the leafe and 
branches of it are made so softe, and boweth downe 
to the Male. 

Therefore whan they see that, they bynde ropes 
from the Male to the Female. Reddit ergo erecta 
superse ipsam quasi adepta sit Masculo per 
continuationem fumis virtutem Masculi. 
Notwithstanding many of the ancient authors have 
shewed marveylous things, received now of the 
common people and taken for a truth. Therfore I 
shal shew to thee certain things, that thou maiest 
stablishe thy mynde upon them, and to knowe it for 
a certayne truthe, whych reason cannot stablishe 
by feeling, because the foresayd help in them. And 
therefore it is, that the sonne of Messias sayde 
in the booke of the beasts; If a woman great with 
Childe put on the apparell of a man, and a man put 
it on after before he washe it, if hee have the 
fever quartaine, it wyll depart from him. 

And it is sayde in the booke of Beastes, that the 
Lybard fleeth the privy members of a man, and in 
an other place it is said, si Carneum, if an old 
man be buryed in a dove or Culver house, or be put 
wher Doves of Culvers inhabit or rest, ther they 
ar multiplied untill it be full of them. 

And in the booke De ciriaca of Galene, it is sayde 
that the Serpent which is called Regulus in Latin, 
a Cockattica in Englyshes, is somewhat whyte, upon 
whose head there be three heeres, * when any man 
seeth them he dieth sone. And whan any man or any 
other lyving thing heareth hys whistelyng, he 
dyeth. And every Beast that eateth of it being 
dead, dieth also. Aristotle sayth, where there is 
Sommer syxe monethes, and lykewyse Winter, there 
is a floud in the whych Adders are founde, whose 
propertie is that they never see them selves, but 
they dye, and when they be dead they hurt not. But 
Aristotle put craftelye in the mynde of Alexander, 
that he should take a great glasse, and walke with 
it toward them, and when they dyd behold them 
selves in the glasse, they dyed. Thys saying of 
Aristotle was not beleved of some men. 

For Avicenna sayd against Aristotle; if any man 
did see it, hey dyed, wherefore there is no truth 
in hys speeche. They sayd also, if anye man woulde 
take of the mylke of a woman gyving sucke to her 
owne Daughter, of twee yeare old, and let it bee 
put in glasen vessell, or hanged up in a Dove or 
Culver house wher they go in and out. Doves wyll 
abide and be multiplied ther, but if they bee 
innumetable. They say further, when the mouth of a 
deade man is put upon him which complayneth of his 
belly, hys bellye is healed. 

Alexander sayth, when anye thing is taken out of 
the navil of an Infant which commeth forth, if it 
be cut and put under the stone of a ryng of sylver 
or golde, than the passion or griefe of the 
colicke commeth not in any wyse to hym that 
beareth it. 

Moreover Galen saith, when the leaves of Sorrel be 
eaten, they louse the bellye. And when the seede 
of it is droonken, it louseth the belly. And it is 
sayd that the roote of Sorrel hanged upon him that 
hath the swine pockes, it helpeth him. 

And Philosophers saye, when thou wilt that a Beast 
returne to his lodging, anoynt his forehead wyth 
Sepe squilla, and it wil returne. 

And Aristotle saith in the booke of the Beastes; 
If any man put lorought ware uppon the hornes of a 
Cowes calfe, it wyll go wyth him wheresoever he 
wyll go wythout labour. And if any man anoint the 
horne of Kyne with waxe and Oyle, or pitch, the 
payne of their feete goeth away. 

And if any shall anoynte the tonges of Oxen with 
any talow, they wyll neyther taste nor eate meate, 
but they wyll die for hunger, except it be wiped 
away with salt and vinegar. 

And if any man anoynt the nether parts of a Cock 
with oyle, he neither can nor wil treade a Hen. 

If thou desyre that a Cocke crowe not, anoynt his 
heade and foreheade with oyle. 

It is said in the booke of Archigenis, quando 
camilia of the Hare is hanged upon him that 
suffreth the collicke, it profiteth hym. 

Aristotle saith the Emeraudes goeth away from him 
which sytteth upon a skyn of a Lyon. 

If the doung of an Hare be broken unto poulder and 
cast a broade upon a place of Emotes or Pismeres, 
then the Pismeres leave their place. 

Philosophers say, if the heade of a Goate be 
hanged upon hym whych hath the Swyne pockes, hee 
is healed by it. If thou wilt that a woman be not 
viciate, nor desire men, take the privy members of 
a Woolfe, and the heeres which do grow on the 
cheekes or eye brightes of him, and the heres 
which bee under hys bearde, and burne it al, and 
geve it to her in a drink when she knoweth not, 
and shee shall desyre no other man. They say also 
when a woman desireth not her husbande, then let 
her husband take a litle of the talow of a bucke 
Goate, meane betwene litle and great, and let him 
anoynt hys privy member wyth it, and do the acte 
of generation, she shall love him, and shall not 
do the acte of generation afterward with any. 

And they saye that when the Snaile is poysoned, it 
eateth the herbe called Organy, and is healed, and 
therefore they know that the herbe called Organy, 
hath lyen under poyson. It is also sayde when the 
Wesel is poisoned of a Serpent, it eateth Rew, * 
they know by this that Rew is contrary to the 
venime of Serpentes. 

Let a Mouse be put under the pricking of 
Scorpions, and it delivereth a man, because she is 
contrary and feareth him not. 

Philosophers have invented that if any woman is 
barryne, when there is put to her a thyng that 
maketh a woman barayne, that woman is not 
barreine, but fruitfull and contrarywhise. 

It is said that when a spoonge is cast in wyne 
mixed wyth water, and after crushed foorth and 
strayned and wringed, the water commeth forth of 
it, and the wyne remayneth, if it be not mixed, 
nothing commeth forth. 

Taberences sayth if a stone be hanged upon a 
Spoonge on the necke of a chylde which cougheth 
with a vehement or great coughs, hys coughe is 
mitigated and restrayned. And when it is put on 
the heade of an Affe, or into hys foundament, 
Scarabeus, that is a flye wyth a blacke shell, 
that breedeth in cowshardes and is black, called a 
Betle, cutteth him, and he turneth untyll it be 
drawen from him. 

It is sayd also, that if any stone be bounden to 
the taile of an affe; he wyll not bray nor roare. 

If the heeres of an Affe bee taken, whych are 
nyghe hys privye members, and bee geven to anye 
man broken in with any kinde of wine in a drinke, 
he beginneth anone to fart. Likewise if any man 
taketh the egges of Pysunetes, breaketh them, and 
casteth them into water, and geve them to any man 
in a drinke, he ceaseth not anon to fart, they do 
likewise with wyne. 

And it is sayde, if thou wylte make a ryng of a 
rodde of a freshe myrte tree, and put it on thy 
ryng fynger, it mittigateth or extyneteth the 
impostume under the arme holes. 

In the booke of Aristotle it is sayd, that the 
roote of white Henbane, when it is hanged uppon a 
man having the colicke, it is profitable to him. 
When Saltpeter is put in a vessel, and viniger 
upon it, it wyll boyle or seeth myghtely without 
fire. 

It is sayd also in the booke of Hermes, when Leeke 
seede is casten upon vineger, the egernes of 
sournes of it goeth away. 

Belbinus saith, when thou takest the white of an 
egge and Alum, and anoyntest a cloth wyth it, and 
washest it of wyth water of the sea beyng dry it 
letteth the fyre to burne. 

An other sayde, when red Arsenicum and Allum are 
taken and broken and confected, or made wyth the 
iuyce of the herbe called Houslyke, and the Gall 
of a Bull, and a man anoynteth hys handes with it, 
and after taketh hoate yron, it burneth not them. 
Lykewyse if there bee taken Exmagne and alume 
Jamenti, and strong vineger, and great Malowes of 
holye Hocke, if thou braye them well together, and 
anoynt thy handes therewyth, fyre hurteth them 
not.. 

When thou wylte that they whyche bee in a Pallace 
seeme without heades, take swert brimstone wyth 
oyle, and put it in a lampe and make lyght wyth 
it, and put it in the myddelst of men, and thou 
shalt see a marveylous thyng. 

Belbinus sayth againe, he that shal put an herbe 
called Purslan upon his bed, shal not see dreame, 
nor vision utterly. 

Aristotle sayth, that Mares when they smell the 
smoke of a lampe put out, they bryng foorth their 
birth before they be perfit, * likewise this 
chanceth to certayn women with childe. 

Aristotle saide, that if any man causeth by hys 
wyt a Camell to doo the acte of genration wyth hys 
owne mother, if he perceyve it before, he wyll not 
leave pursuing the man untyll hee kyll hym. And if 
one cause also by hys wyt an Horse to leape hys 
owne mother, and hee knowe if before, hee will kyl 
him selfe, and them that provoked him to that. 

And Philosophers say, if thou drowne flies in the 
water, and the be dead, if they be buryed in 
asshes they ryse up agayne. And when thou drownest 
Bomber, it dieth, and let viniger be dropped downe 
lyke dewe uppon it, it is quicke quickned. And 
when thou buriest the flye called a Beetle amonge 
Roses, it dyeth if thou bury it in dung, it 
quickeneth. 

Philosophers saye, that when the feathers of 
Eagles bee put with the fethers of other fowles, 
they burne and mortefy them; for as hee 
overcommeth in hys lyfe al Birdes, and ruleth over 
them, so the feathers of Eagles ar deadly to alle 
feathers. 

Moreover Philosophers say of the skyn of a Sheepe 
be put in any place with the skyn of Adib, it 
gnaweth and consumeth it. And hee that putteth on 
hym cloth of the wool of a Shepe which hath eaten 
Adib, itchyng ceaseth not from him, until he put 
it of. 

If thou perfume an house or place wyth the lunges 
or lyghtes of an Affre, thou riengest (?) it from 
twees Serpent, * Scorpion. And of this 
philosophers know that it is good against poyson. 

Thoacerkes saith, if the tong of the Lapwing or 
black Plover be hanged upon a wall, Oblinionem 
meed it cum memorem et alimentiones. 

And it is sayde in the booke of Tiropaltar. If a 
women have no delectation wyth her husbande, take 
the matrice of a Woolfe, of hys leafte foote and 
beare it, and she will love no man but hym, and it 
is sayde, when the leafte hyd or hamenl of a male 
Ostrigel is taken and boyled or seethedt wyth 
Oyle, and after the begynnyng or grounde of heir 
es are anoynted wit hit, they grow never agayne. 

Architas sayde, if the hart of a Serpent bee taken 
when hee lyveth, and be hanged upon a man being 
sicke of the fever quartain, it plucketh it 
utterly awaye. And the Adders skyn when it is 
strait bounde upon the ankle of a woman, it 
hasteth the byrth, but after the byrth it must be 
removed away anone. 

The teeth of all Serpentes when thou pluckest them 
foorth by the rootes, as long as the serpent 
lyveth, if they be hanged upon a man sycke of the 
fever quartaine, they take away the Fever 
quartayne from hym, and if the Serpent be hanged 
upon a tooth aking it profiteth. And if a Serpent 
meete with a woman wyth child, she bringeth forth 
her childe before it be perfect. If it meete with 
her when she travayleth of childe, if hasteth her 
byrth. 

And they say, if thou wylt take the eye toothe of 
the Beast called Crocodilus in Latine, in Englisch 
a Crocodil, out of the upper more palate of the 
leafte syde of hys mouyth, and hang it on a man 
beyng sycke of the fevers, it healeth hym and the 
fevers wyll not returne agayne to hym. And they 
have sayde that the Lyon is afrayde of a white 
Corke, and also that hee feareth the fyre. Hee 
that is anoynted wyth the talow of the raynes of 
the Lyon, feareth not to go amongest beastes, and 
all beastes are afrayde of the Lyon. He that 
anoynteth his body with Hares dung, Wolves be 
afraid of him. 

Et si tiritur arsenicum citrinum and be mixed with 
milke, if a fly fall upon it, it dieth not. 

If thou wylt take the ryght foote of a Snayle, and 
hang it upon the right foote of a diseased man 
with the goute, it profyteth it. Lykewise if thou 
hang up the leaft foote of a Snayle to the left 
foote diseased with the goute, it helpeth also. 
And so the hand of it is profitable to the hande, 
and the finger to the finger. 

And if a fyre be kyndled before a man that is 
bursten of greene wood of fyg trees, his stones 
wil make a noyse or bounsing. 

Ii is also sayde in the booke of Hermes, whan both 
the eyes of the Beare be bounden in a lynen cloth, 
upon Simistrum adivrorium they put awaye the fever 
quartain. And it is said, if the Woolfe see a man, 
and the man see not him, the man is astonyed and 
festeth, and is hoarse. And therfore if any man 
beareth the eye of a Woolfe, it helpeth to 
victorye, to boldnes, vanguishing and feare of his 
adversarie. 

It is also said if a ring be made of the whyte 
houfes of an Affe, he that hath the fallyng 
sycknesse putteth it on, suffreth not the falling 
sicknes. 

They say more, when thou wilt that flies come not 
nye the house then put Condicim, * Oppinin in 
whyte lyme, after make thy house white wyth it, 
than flyes shal in no wyse enter. 

When thou wilt that thy wyfe or wenche shewe to 
thee all that shee hath done, take the hart of a 
Pogue, and the heade of a Frog, and drye them 
both, bray them unto poulder, and lay them upon 
the brest of her sleeping, and shee shal shew to 
thee all that she hath done, but when shee shall 
wake, wipe it away from her brest, that it be not 
lifted by. 

Further they say, if anye man put a Diamonde under 
the head of a woman sleeping, shee manyfesteth if 
shee bye an advouterer, fot if it be so, she 
leapeth back out of the bed afrayde, and if not 
shee embraceth her husband with great love. 

Moreover they say, that an Affes skyn when it is 
hanged upon Chyldren, it letteth them be be 
afrayde. 

Architas sayth, if the waxe of the leaft eare of a 
Dog bee taken and be hanged uppon men sycke in the 
fevers that come by coulde or fyrres, it is verye 
profitable, and specially to the fever Quartaine. 

And Philosophers saye, that some kinde or flugvish 
(?) which never had sicknesse is profitable to 
every sycknesse, and hee that had never paine, 
helpeth and healeth a man from it. 

When the house is perfumed wyth the leafte foute 
of a Mole, flies remayne not in it. 

And if the hart, eye, of brayne of a Lapwyng or 
blacke Plover be hanged upon a mans necke, it is 
profitable agaynste forgetfulnesse, and sharpeth 
mans understanding. 

If a woman may not conceive, take an Harts horne 
turned unto poulder, and let it be mixed whith a 
Cowes gal, let a woman keepe it about her and let 
her to the act of generation, and shee shall 
conceive anone. 

A grosse and stiffe heere of a Mares tayle put 
upon a doore, suffereth not zanzaies to enter. 

The toothe of a fole or Cock of one yeare old put 
in the neck of a childe, maketh his teeth to 
breede without payne. 

The tooth of a Mare put upon the head of a man, 
being mad, delyvereth hym anone from hys furye. 

If a woman may not conceive, let Mares milke be 
geven to her not knowing, let her doe the act of 
genration in that houre, and she shall conceive 
anone. 

The houfe of an Horse perfumed in a house, dryveth 
awaye Myse, the same chaunceth also by the houfe 
of a Muile. 

That al the hote water come forth of a caldron. 
Take or blanch that is Terra francisca wyth pytch 
cast in water, and it shall come fort all. That 
fyre maye come out of water, take the shell of an 
egge, and put it in quicke brymstone and lyme, and 
shut the hole, and put it into water, and it wyll 
kyndle. 

It is sayde, if the herbe Camphere be put upon 
water, it is kindeled and burneth in the water. 

That thou may take Byrdes with thy handes, take 
any corne verye wll steeped in the dregs of wyne, 
in the iuyce of Hemlocke, cast it to the birdes, 
every Byrd that taketh of it is made droonken, and 
looseth her strenght. 

They say that if any man be anoyted wyth the mylke 
of an Mise (?), all the flies in the house wil 
gather to hym. 

To wryte letters or bylles, whiche bee not readde 
but in the nyght. Take the gall of a Snaile or 
milke of a Sew, and put it to the fyre or with 
water of a worm shining late. 

If ye myngle together manye whytes of Hens egges, 
a month after they are made glasse, and as hard as 
a stone, and of this being after this fashion is 
made a Sophistical preciaus Stone which is called 
Topasius, if it bee conjoyned before wyth Saffron 
or red earth. 

Lykewise if the some whych is found about the 
stones of a Hart of Horse, or Affe, beyng weery, 
be mixed wyth wyne, and the wyne be geven to any 
man to drynk, he shal abborre wine for a month. 

And if any man shall have manye Eeles in a wyne 
vessell, and they bee suffered to dye in it, if 
any man drynke of it, hee shall abborre wyns for a 
yeare, and per adventure evermore. 

And it is sayde, if a rope be taken, wyth whych a 
Theefe is or hath bene hanged up with and a litle 
chaffe, which a whirlwinde lifted up in the ayre, 
and let them be put in a pot, and set among other 
pots, that pot shall breake al the other pots. 

Also take thou a litle of the aforesaid rope, and 
put it on the instrument wyth which the breade is 
put in the oven, when hee that should put it in 
the Oven should put it in, hee shall not bee able 
to put it in, but it shall leape out. 

That men may seeme without heades. 

Take an Adders skyn, and Auri pigmentum, greeke 
pitch of Reuponticum and the waxe of newe Bees, 
the fat or greace of an Affe, and breake them all, 
put them in a dull seethyng pot ful of water, and 
make it to seeth at a slow fire, and after let it 
ware cold and make a taper and every man that shal 
see light of it, shall seeme headlesse. 

That men may seeme to have the vysage or 
countenaunce of a Dogge. Take the fat out of the 
eare of a Dog, and anoynt wyth it a litle new 
silke, put it in a new lampe of greene glasse, and 
put the lampe among men, and they shall see the 
visage of a Dog. 

That man may seeme to have three heades. 

Take the heere of a dead Affe, and make a rope and 
drye it, and take the marow of the principall bone 
of hys ryght shoulder, and mixe it with vyrgin 
ware, and anoynt the cord, and put it upon the 
thresholds of the house, they that come into the 
house shal seeme to have three heades, and they 
that be in the house shall seeme Affes to them 
that enter in. 

If thou wilt that a mans head seeme an Affe head. 
Take up of the coveryng of an Affe, * anoynt the 
man on his head. 

If thou wilt that a chickyn, or other thing leape 
in the dish. Take quick silver and the pouder of 
Calamite, and put is in a bottel of glasse well 
spotted, and put it within a hoate thyng. For 
seyng quicke sylver is hote, it moveth it selfe, * 
maketh it to leape or daunce. 

If thou wilt see that other men cannot see. Take 
of the gall of a male Cat, and the fat of an Hen 
all whyte, and mixe them together, anoint thy 
eyes, and thou shalt seit that others cannot see. 

If thou wylt understand the voyces of byrdes. 

Associate wyth thee twou followes in the xxviii 
day of October, and go into a certayne wood with 
Dogs as to hunt, and every home with thee that 
beast which thou shall finde first, and prepare it 
with the hart of a Foxe, thou shal understand anon 
the voyce of byrdes or beastes. And if thou wylt 
that any other likewise understand, kysse hym, and 
hee shall understand. 

If thou wilt louse hendes. Go into the woode, and 
looke where the Pye hath ther nest with her 
byrdes, and when thou shall be ther, clym up the 
tree, and bynde about she hale of it where soever 
thou wylt. (?) For when she seeth thee, she goeth 
for a certayn herbe whych she wyll put up the 
bynding, and it is broken anon, that herbe falleth 
to the grounde upon the earth which thou should 
have put under the tree, and bee then present to 
take it. 

In the nest of the Lapwing or blacke Plover, there 
is a certaine stone whych is of divers colours, 
beare it with thee, and thou shalt be invisible. 

That a man may be alwaies as a gelded man. Take 
the worme which shineth in Sommer, and geve it to 
him to drinke. 

That a woman may confesse what she hath done. Take 
a water Frogge quicke, and take away her tong, and 
put it againe into the water, and put the toung 
unto a part of the hart of the woman sleepyng, 
whyche when she is asked, she shal say the trouth. 

If thou wilt put anye man in feare in his sleepe. 
Put under his head the skyn of an Ape. 

If thou wylt take a Mole, put in his hole an Onion 
or a Leeke, or Oyle, and she wyll come soone forth 
without strenght. 

A Serpent wil not come nygh Garlick, and a Dog 
tasteth not any thing dipped with Garlick, 
although he be hungry. 

A perfuming by which every man shall seeme to 
other that bee in the house, in the forme of 
Elephantes and great Horsses. Take a Spice whych 
is called Alchacengi, braye it and myxe it with a 
litle fat of a Dolphin fish, and make thereof 
graynes as be of Pomeritron. After perfume some of 
them upon a fyre of cowes doung which is milked. 
And let not a place bee in the house from which 
smoke may come forth, but let it and the mylke be 
under the earth within, and all which be in the 
lodgyng shall seeme as they were great men in the 
shape of Horsses and Elephantes, and it is a very 
marveilous thyng. 

An other perfuming, whyche whan thou makest, thou 
seest outwardlye greene men, and men of many 
shapes, * infinite marveils whych are not 
discetned for theyr multitude. Take Timar, that is 
Vermillion, and the stone Lazulus, and Penyroyall 
of the Mountaynes, and beate it al to poulder, and 
sift it and then mixe it with the fat of a Dolphin 
fish, horsse or Elephant make then graynes or 
cornes after the fashion of Ryse, and drye them in 
a shadowe. Perfume it when thou wylt, and it shall 
bee done that is sayd. 

A perfume to see in our sleepe what thyng is to 
come of good and evyll. Take the bloude of an Affe 
congeled, and the fat Lupi cerini and sweete 
insense or gumme called Storax, and also Styrax, 
gather it altogether by equall weightes, and let 
them be mixed, graynes or cornes bee made thereof, 
and let the house be perfumed wyth them, and thou 
shalt see hym in thy sleepe that shall shew thee 
all thinges. 

A maner of makyng a matche of a candel or candel 
weke, which whan thou shalte kyndle, thou shalt 
see men in what shape so ever thou wylt. Take the 
eyes of a shrick Owle the eyes of a fishe which is 
called Iffures, and the eyes of a fyshe whyche is 
called Libinitis, and the gall of Vatues, (?) 
breake them with thy handes, and mixe them 
together, and put them in a vessel of glasse, then 
when thou wylte worke it, take the fat of any 
beast thou wilt, that this may be made in the 
shape of it melt it and mixe it perfectlye wyth 
that medicine, and anoynt the matche or candle 
wike whatsoever thou wilt with it. After kyndle it 
in the mydst of the house, and the men that seene 
in the shape of that beast whose fat thou didst 
take. 

An other match of a candle or a candle weke that 
men may appeare in the shape of Angels. Take the 
eyes of a fish, and the eyes of foge, that is of a 
breaker of bones, and breake them wyth thy handes, 
and make them soft, and put them in a vessel of 
glasse vii dayes. After put some oyle in them, and 
lyghten it in a greene lampe, put it before men 
whych be in the house, they shall see them selves 
in the shape of Angels by the light of the fire. 

An other match of wieke of a candle, makyng men to 
appeare with blacke faces. Take a blacke lampe, 
and pour in it Oyle of the Elder of Alder tree, or 
quiycke sylver, and poure in the Oyle or quick 
sylver, and a part of the bloud of them that be in 
letting bloude, and put in that bloud Oyle of the 
Elder or Alder tree (some say of the Bur tree) or 
quicke sylver. 

A marveilous lampe in which appeareth a thing of 
terrible qualitie, having in the hand a rodde, and 
feareth a man. Take a greene Frog, and cut of the 
head if it upon a grene cloth, make it wete with 
the Oyle of a Burtree or Eldertree, and put in the 
wieke, lighten it in a greene lampe, thou shalt 
see a blacke man standyng, betweene whose handes 
there shalbe a lampe, and a merveilous thing. 

An other wieke, which whan it is kindled, * water 
poured out it wareth strong, and when the oyle is 
put in in it put out. Take lyme whych water hath 
not touched, and put it wyth the weight equall to 
it of ware, the halfe of it of the oyle of baulme, 
Napta citrina, with equal to it of brimstone, and 
make a weke of it, let it drop down like dew upon 
the water, and it shall be kyndled and drop downe 
oyle upon it and it shalbe put out. 

An other weke, which when it is kindled, all 
thynges seme white and of sylver. Take a Lizarde 
and cut away the tayl of it, and take that whych 
commeth out, for it is lyke quicke sylver. After 
take a weke, make it wete wyth oyle, and put it in 
an new lampe and kindle it, and the house shall 
seeme bright, white or gylted wyth sylver. 

A marveylous operation of a Lampe, which if any 
man shall hold, he ceaseth not to fart, untyll he 
shall leave it. Take the bloude of a Snayle, drye 
it up in a lynnen clothe, and make of it a weke, 
and lyghten it in a Lampe, geve it to anye man 
thou wylt, and say lyghten thys, he shall not 
cease to fart, untyl he let it depart, and is is a 
marveylous thyng. 

A weke which when it is lyghtned, women cease bot 
to daunce and be glad, and to playe as they were 
mad for great ioy. Take the bloud of an Hare, and 
the bloude of a certayne Fowle which is called 
Sollon, and it is lyke a Turtle Doove, and of the 
bloud of the Turtle male, equall to the halfe of 
it. Then put in it a weke, and lighten it in the 
mydst of the house, in which are syngers and 
wenches, and a marveylous thing shalbe proved. 

If thou wylt make that Lyce may appeare to runne 
abrode in a mans bedde that he maye not sleepe, 
then cast in hys bedde the weyght of an unce or 
half unce of Alcakengi, * if thou shalt make Pilos 
Asturis, thereof shall bee made a wicke, which 
when it is lightened every sycke man seeyth other 
by the vehemencye of the sicknes, and minishing or 
extenvation. 

When thou wilt that thou seme wil inflamed or set 
on fyre from thy head unto thy feete, not be hurt. 
Take white great Malowes, or holy Hocke, myxe them 
wythe of egges, after anoynt the body with it, and 
let it be until it be dried up; and anoint thee 
wyth allum, and afterward cast on it smal 
brymstone beaten unto poulder, for the fire is 
inflamed on it, and hurteth not, and if thou do 
thus on the palme of thy hand, thou shalt bee able 
to holde the fyre without hurt. 

If thou wylt that a thyng bee rasten in the fyre 
and not burne. Take one part of glew of fish, and 
an equal quantitie to it of allum, let it be 
perfectly mixed, and and let vineger bee poured 
upon it let whatsoever thing thou wilt be 
confected wyth it, cast it in the fyre, anoynt 
thee wit this noyntment and it shal not be burned. 

If thou wylt make a counterfaite, that is an Image 
or other thyng, and when is put in the water it is 
kyndled, and if thou shalt drawe it out, it shall 
bee put out or quenched. Take Lyme not quenched, 
and mixe it perfectly with a litle waxe, and the 
oyle of Sesamum, napta, that is white earth and 
brymstone, and make of it an Image, and when thou 
shalt put it in wa- ter the fyre shalbe kyndled. 

If thou wylt make that whan thou openest the 
handes upon a lampe, the light of it is put out, 
when thou closeth them upon it, it kyndleth, and 
it ceaseth not to do that. Take a spice whyche is 
called Syvina, after bray it, and make it with 
water of Camphere, and anoynt thy handes wyth it, 
after open them in the mouth of the lampe, the 
lyght of it shall be put out, and close them, and 
it shall be kyndled agayne. 

If thou wilt see a thing drowned, or see deepe in 
the water in the nyght, and that it shall not be 
more hyd to thee then in the day, and reade bookes 
in a darcke night. Anoynt thy face with the bloud 
of the Reremouse or Backe, and it shelbe done that 
I say. If thou wilt make any thyng whyte, perfume 
it with brimstone. 

If thou wilt kyll soone a Serpent, take as much as 
thou wylt of an herbe called Rotunda Aristologia, 
Smerwort, or weke galingale, and braye it well, 
and take a Frog of the wood of feld, breake it 
wel, and mixe it with Aristologia, and put it with 
some ynke, write with it in paper or in any other 
thing which thou lovest beter, and cast it to 
Serpentes. 

If thou wylt beare fire in thy hand that it maye 
not hurt thee. Take Lime dissolved wyth hot water 
of Beanes, and a litle Magrencules, and a lytle of 
great malowes or holye Hocke, and mixe it well 
with it; after anoynte the palme of thy hand with 
it, and let it bee dryed, put in it fyre, and it 
shall not hurt. 

Philosphers say that such lime burneth not in the 
fire; and glew of fische saveth from fire, and 
unpleasant allumn, and the bloude of the beast 
called Salamandra, and the smoke of an Oven or 
caldron. Therefore when anoyntment is made of all 
these or of certayne of them, the fyre hurteth 
not. The white of an Egge, and great malowes or 
holy Hocke have vertue in this matter. 

A weke whych when it is lightened in the house, 
thou shalt see greene thyngs flying as sparows and 
other byrdes. Take a new cloth and put in it the 
braines of a byrd, and the fea- thers of her tayl, 
and lay them in and make a wieke of theym, and put 
it in a new grene lampe, kindle it in the house 
wyth the Oyle of the Olive, the thinges which 
shall be made very greene, and it shall seeme that 
greene and black fowles do flye. 

If thou wylt make a candle of wieke to be shaked, 
and walke when it is lightened. Take the skin of a 
Woolfe, and the skyn of a Dogge, and make of them 
both a wieke, and kyndle it with the oyle of 
Olive, and it shal be moved soone. 

When thou wilt lighten a lantern, for which he 
shall feare greatly that seeyth it. Take a new 
white linnen cloth, and make of it a weike, and 
put in the holownes of it a skyn of a Serpent and 
great salt, and fyll it with Oyle Olyve, and geve 
it to anye man that thou wylt, as soone as he 
shall kyndle it, he shal tremble and feare 
greatly. 

A marveylous experience which maketh men to go 
into the fyre without hurt, or to beare fire or 
red hoate yron in theyr hande without hurt. Take 
the iuyce of Bismalva, and the white of an egge, 
and the seede of an herbe called Psillium also 
Pulicarias herba, and break it unto poulder, and 
make a confection, and myxe the iuyce of radish 
with the whyte of the egge. Anoynt thy bodye or 
hand wyth this confection, let it bee dryed, and 
anoynt it agayne, after that thou maiest suffer 
boldly the fyre wythout hurt. But if thou wylte 
that the thyng anoynted seeme to burne, scatter 
uppon it quicke brimstone well beaten into 
poulder, and it shall seme to be burned when the 
brimstone shall be kyndled, and it shall not hurt 
hym. If thou shalt blowe the herbe called 
Colophonia Greke, pytch beaten very smalll upon 
the flame of the candle whych a man holdeth in his 
hande, it augmenteth marveylously the fyre, * 
lifteth by the flame unto the house rouse. 

That thou maye beare fyre unhurt, let lyme be 
dissolved with hoate water of beanes, and put 
thereto a lyttle red earth of Mitiva, after put to 
a litle great Mallowes of holye Hocke, wyth whyche 
conjoyned or myxed together, anoynte the palme of 
thy hande, and let it drye up, and so mayest thou 
beare anye fyre without hurt. 

Thou mayest make burnyng water after this fashion. 
Take blacke, thicke and mighty and olde wyne, and 
in one quart of it thou shalte temper a lyttle 
quick Lyme and Brimstone beaten into poulder verye 
small, and lees of good wyne and common salt, 
whyte and grosse, after thou shalt put it in a 
Gourd well clayed, and Desuper posito alembico, 
thou shalte destyll burnynge water, whych thou 
shoulde keepe in a glasse. 

Thou mayest make a Greke fire after this fashion. 
Take quycke Brymstone, lees of wyne. Sarcecilam 
picolam, sodden salt, oyle of stone, and common 
oyle, make them seeth well, and of any thynge be 
put in it, it is kyndled whether it bee tree or 
yron, and is not put out but by pisse, vyniger or 
sande. 

If thou wylt that every thing cease to be 
marveled. Looke the sufficient causes of doynge, 
and also of sufferynge for if thou loke bothe thou 
shalte not mervayle, for thou shalt see that ther 
is so great aptenes in one sufficience of another, 
that it maketh thee not to mervale, for whan thou 
seest that cold water kyndled the fyre, and 
putteth it not oute, yf thou shoulde behold the 
doyngs cause, thou woulde mervayl alwayes what 
were the efficiente cause convevient to thys 
thynge, but whan thou lokest to the matter of that 
effecte, that is because it is lyme and brymstone, 
whyche are very inflammable, so that a very litle 
thyng flammeth them, thou seest that there is 
nothynge to be mervayled. 

Lyke wyse is a mervayle that a thynge is burned by 
fyre, whan none of the causes is beholden onely; 
But whan the nature of the sufferer or weaknes of 
the doer is looked on, ther is no marvayle. 

If thou wylt make a Carbunkle stone, or a thing 
shining in the night. Take very manye of the 
lyttle Beastes shynyng by nyghte, and put them 
beaten small in a bottel of glasse, and close it, 
and burye it in hoate Horses dung, and let it fary 
xv dayes, afterwarde thou shalt destyll water of 
them Per alembicum, whyche thou shalt put in a 
vessel of Christal or glasse. It geveth so great 
clearenesse, that every man maye reade and write 
in a darke place where it is. Some men make thys 
water of the gal of a Snayle, the gal of the 
Wesell, of the gal of the Feret, and of a water 
Dog, they burye them in dung, and destyll water 
out of them. 

Make flying fyre after this maner. Take one pound 
of Brimstone, two pounde of coales of wyllow or 
wythye, sixe pounde of stonye Salte, these three 
thynges must be brayed very small in a Marbel 
stone, afterward thou mayest put (opeens 
afgelopen) 

